And through the leagues above her

She looked, aghast, and said:

"What is this living ship that comes

Where every ship is dead?"

The ghostly vessels trembled

From ruined stern to prow;

What was this thing of terror

That broke their vigil now?

Down through the startled ocean

A mighty vessel came,

Not white, as all dead ships must be,

But red, like living flame!

The pale green waves about her

Were swiftly, strangely dyed,

By the great scarlet stream that flowed

From out her wounded side.

And all her decks were scarlet

And all her shattered crew.

She sank among the white ghost ships

And stained them through and through.

The grim Titanic greeted her

"And who art thou?" she said;

"Why dost thou join our ghostly fleet

Arrayed in living red?

We are the ships of sorrow

Who spend the weary night,

Until the dawn of Judgment Day, Obscure and still and white."

"Nay," said the scarlet visitor, "Though I sink through the sea

A ruined thing that was a ship

I sink not as did ye.

For ye met with your destiny

By storm or rock or fight,

So through the lagging centuries

Ye wear your robes of white.

"But never crashing iceberg Nor honest shot of foe,

Nor hidden reef has sent me

The way that I must go.

My wound that stains the waters,

My blood that is like flame,

Bear witness to a loathly deed,

A deed without a name.

"I went not forth to battle, I carried friendly men,

The children played about my decks,

The women sang - and then -

And then - the sun blushed scarlet

And Heaven hid its face,

The world that God created

Became a shameful place!
"My wrong cries out for vengeance,

The blow that sent me here

Was aimed in Hell. My dying scream

Has reached Jehovah's ear.

Not all the seven oceans

Shall wash away the stain;

Upon a brow that wears a crown

I am the brand of Cain."

When God's great voice assembles

The fleet on Judgment Day,

The ghosts of ruined ships will rise

In sea and strait and bay.

Though they have lain for ages

Beneath the changeless flood,

They shall be white as silver.

But one - shall be like blood.

- Joyce Kilmer.

OVERHEARD IN AN ASYLUM

AND here we have another case, quite different from the last, another case quite different Listen.

Baby, drink. The war is over. Mother's breasts are round with milk.

Baby, rest. The war is over. Only pigs siop over so.

Baby, sleep. The war is over. Daddy's come with a German coin.

Baby, dream. The war is over. You'll be a soldier too.
We gave her the doll Now there we have another case, quite different from -

- Alfred Kreymborg.
PATTERNS

I WALK down the garden paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills. I walk down the patterned garden paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. With my powdered hair and jewelled fan, I too am a rare Pattern. As I wander down The garden paths.

My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver stain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders. Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes. Not a softness anywhere about me, Only whale-bone and brocade. And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion Wars against the stiff brocade. The daffodils and squills

M
