THE UNCONQTJERED HOPE

(A ship recently arrived in England from America, laden with toys, the gift of the American people, for the children both of the Allies and the Enemy.)

FROM sea to sea, from shore to shore, The clouds of death and doom

Veil the sun's soft and kindly beam; -

Yet, can ye see one light agleam

Where a stately ship comes threading Its pathway thro' the gloom?

Say ye 'tis but a ship of steel? Are ye so dead, so blind! Can ye not see the rainbow spray That dances on the good ship's way,

Nor hear the strange, deep whispers That wander on the wind?

What are the gifts the proud ship brings To the weary world and old?

Trifles to fill a childish hand?

Why, hardly the angels understand The richness of the treasure That lies within its hold

Oh, breaking thro' the mist of dreams

That wreathe the distant bar, The vessel comes with a strange light dress'd, And, tho' it sails from out the West, Upon its flag there glistens

A golden Eastern star!

For when the world is blackest,

And man is blind with blood And buried deep in his guilt and pride, This is the ship that takes the tide And sends its lamp of healing

Across the soul's dark flood.

It comes once more as it oft has come,

With its faery wings outspread Can ye not see them, eyes that grope, Nor read its name, The Unconquered Hope, Nor yet discern the halo

Around its Figurehead?

What are the gifts the proud ship brings?

Oh childish smiles and tears;

Oh childish faith that breaks thro' all The sin that holds the world in thrall! A rift is in the darkness -

A ship, a ship appears.

- Gilbert Thomas.
SONNET

October 1st, 1914

ENGLAND! that thou wast faint of heart we said,

Or inly thought; and that the wreath of bays

Drooped on thy brow, withered with length of days,

A dust-layered trophy of the age-long Dead:

We wronged thee much! - Myriads this month have bled

And died for thee, and though the end delays, There's not one that a daunted spirit betrays

Nor that for thee life's last drop would not shed!

We deemed thy robes grown faded, - but freshdyed

We now behold them, - and their crimson dye

Is of thy sons' spilt blood, deep-hued and glowing:

0 England! thou art comely in thy pride And clad in glorious raiment, and thy going

Is as of one who goes to victory!

- Grace E. Tollemache.

TO MY COUNTRY

ONE told me he had heard it whispered: "Lo! The hour has come when Europe, desperate With sudden war and terrible swift hate,

Rocks like a reed beneath the mighty blow.

Therefore shall we, in this her time of woe, Profit and prosper, since her ships of state Go down in darkness. Kind, thrice kind is Fate,

Leaving our land secure, our grain to grow!"

America! They blaspheme and they lie Who say these are the voices of your sons!

In this foul night, when nations sink and die, No thought is here save for the fallen ones Who, underneath the ruin of old thrones,

Suffer and bleed, and tell the world good-by!

- Charles Hanson Towne.
AFTERMATH

WITH steady, silent tread Bearing aloft their dead One at the foot, one at the head The stretcherbearers go; Out of the dark they come Stumbling and staggering, some Bearing, maybe, a chum, Pair after pair they go.

Vague, silhouetted ghosts, Remnants of martyr'd hosts; Think on the blatant toasts Raised to "King Glory"! Tread lightly, that's the way, Wake not the dead, lest they Have other words to say Of the same story!

- D. Howard Tripp.

(Lance-Corporal, London Irish Rifles, British Expeditionary Force.)

A GIRL'S SONG

THE Meuse and Marne have little waves;

The slender poplars o'er them lean.

One day they will forget the graves

That give the grass its living green.

Some brown French girl the rose will wear

That springs above his comely head;

Will twine it in her russet hair,

Nor wonder why it is so red.

His blood is in the rose's veins,

His hair is in the yellow corn.

My grief is in the weeping rains

And in the keening wind forlorn.

Flow softly, softly, Marne and Meuse;

Tread lightly all ye browsing sheep;

Fall tenderly, 0 silver dews,

For here my dear Love lies asleep.

The earth is on his sealed eyes,

The beauty marred that was my pride;

Would I were lying where he lies,

And sleeping sweetly by his side!
The Spring will come by Meuse and 1\/Iarne, The birds be blithesome in the tree. I heap the stones to make his cairn

Where many sleep as sound as he.

- Katharine Tynan.

THE LAUGHERS SPRING! And her hidden bugles up the street. Spring - and the sweet Laughter of winds at the crossing; Laughter of birds and a fountain tossing Its hair in abandoned ecstasies. Laughter of trees. Laughter of shop-girls that giggle and blush; Laugh of the tug-boat's impertinent fife. Laughter followed by a trembling hush Laughter of love, scarce whispered aloud. Then, stilled by no sacredness or strife, Laughter that leaps from the crowd; Seizing the world in a rush. Laughter of life. .

Earth takes deep breaths like a man who had feared he might smother, Filling his lungs before bursting into a shout. . . Windows are opened - curtains flying out; Over the wash-lines women call to each other. And, under the calling, there surges, too clearly to doubt,
Spring, with the noises Of shrill, little voices; Joining in "Tag" and the furious chase Of "Ispy," "Red Rover" and "Prisoner's Base"; Of the roller-skates whir at the sidewalk's slope, Of boys playing marbles and girls skipping rope. And there, down the avenue, behold, The first true herald of the Spring The hand-organ gasping and wheezily murmuring Its tunes ten-years old. And the music, trivial and tawdry, has freshness and magical swing. And over and under it, During and after The laughter Of Spring!

And lifted still With the common thrill, With the throbbing air, the tingling vapor, That rose like strong and mingled wines; I turned to my paper, And read these lines: "Now that the Spring is here, The war enters its bloodiest phase The men are impatient. Bad roads, storms and the rigors of the winter Have held back the contending armies.

But the recruits have arrived, And are waiting only the first days of warm weather .... There will be terrible fighting along the whole line Now that Spring has come."

I put the paper down . Something struck out the sun - something unseen; Something arose like a dark wave to drown The golden streets with a sickly green. Something polluted the blossoming day With the touch of decay. The music thinned and died; People seemed hollow-eyed. Even the faces of children, where gaiety lingers, Sagged and drooped like banners about to be furledAnd Silence laid its bony fingers On the lips of the world . A grisly quiet with the power to choke; A quiet that only one thing broke; One thing alone rose up thereafter . Laughter! Laughter of streams running red. Laughter of evil things in the night; Vultures carousing over the dead; Laughter of ghouls. Chuckling of idiots, cursed with sight. Laughter of dark and horrible pools.
