HERE: AND THERE

September, 1914

HERE

SOFT benediction of September sun; Voices of children, laughing as they run; Green English lawns, bright flowers and butterflies; And over all the blue embracing skies.

THERE

Tumult and roaring of the incessant gun; Dead men and dying, trenches lost and won; Blood, mud, and havoc, bugles, shoutings, cries; And over all the blue embracing skies.

- F. W. Bourdillon.

LORD KITCIJENER

UNFLINCHING hero, watchful to foresee And face thy country's peril wheresoc'er, Directing war and peace with equal care, Till by long toil ennobled thou wert he Whom England call'd and bade "Set my arm free To obey my will and save my honour fair" What day the foe presumed on her despair And she herself had trust in none but thee:

Among Herculean deeds the miracle That mass'd the labour of ten years in one Shall be thy monument. Thy work is done Ere we could thank thee; and the high sea swell Surgeth unheeding where thy proud ship fell By the lone Orkneys, ere the set of sun.

-Robert Bridges.

June 8, 1916.
KARTLSHKIYA-BEROZA

IT is twelve years since I have been there I was born there, In the little town, by the river It all comes back to me now Reading in the newspaper:

The Germans have seized the bridge-head at Karh2shkiya-Beróza; The Russians are retreating in good order across the marshes; The town is inflames."

Kartüshkiya-Beróza! Sweet-sounding, time-scented name Smelling of wide-extending marshes of hay; Smelling of cornfields; Smelling of apple-orchards; Smelling of cherry-trees in full blossom; Smelling of all the pleasant recollections of my childhood Smelling of Grandmother's kitchen, Grandmother's freshly-baked dainties, Grandmother's plum-pudding KartüshkiyaBeróza!

I see before me a lane running between two rows of straggling cottages -

I cannot remember the name of the lane;

I do not know whether it has any name at all;

But I remember it was broad and unpaven and shaded with wide-branching chestnuts -

And enters the market-place Just a few houses after my Grandfather's -

Kartcishkiya-Beróza!

I can see it even now My Grandfather's house -

On the lane, to the right, as you come from the market-place;

A big, hospitable frame building Big like my Grandfather's own heart, And hospitable like Grandmother's smile I can see it even now,

With the white-pillared porch in the centre and the sharp-gabled roof

Pierced with little windows;

And the great quadrangular garden behind it;

And the tall fence surrounding the garden;

And the old well in the corner of the garden;

With the bucket-lift Rising over the fence -

Kartüshkjva-Beróza!

D
I can see him even now, My Grandfather -

Bending over me, tall and sad-eyed and thoughtful

Lifting me up and seating me on his knees Lovingly,

And listening to all my childish questions and confessions;

Pardoning, admonishing, remonstrating -

Satisfying my interrogative soul with good-humored indulgence -

And my Grandmother,

Dear little woman!

I can never dissociate her from plum-pudding and apple dumplings,

And raisin-cakes and almond cakes and crisp potatopancakes

And the smell of fish frying on the fire And then there is my cousin, Miriam, Who lived in the yellow house across the lane -

A freckle-faced, cherry-eyed little girl with a puckeredup nose.

I was very romantic about her;

And then there is my curse, my rival at school, my arch-enemy -

Jacob, The synagogue sexton's boy, On whom 1 was always warring -

God knows on what battlefield he must be lying now!

And then there is Nathan and Joseph and Berel and Solomon

And Ephraim, the baker's boy, And Baruch and Gershen and Mendel

And long-legged, sandy-haired Emanuel who fell into the pond with me that time,

While we were skating on the ice -

Kartüshkiya-Beróza!

I can see myself even now In the lane on a summer's day, Cap in hand, chasing after dragon-flies -

Suddenly, near by, sounds the noise of drums and bugles -

I know what that means!

Breathlessly I dash up the lane -

It is the regiment quartered in the barracks at the end of the town, in its annual parade on the highway -

How I would wish to be one of those gray-coated heroes!

I watch them eager-eyed -

And run after them until they reach the Gentile Quarter -

And then I turn back -

Kartüshkiya-Beróza!
I am in the market-place -

At a Fair;

The market-place is a heaving mass of carts and horses and oxen;

The oxen are lowing, the horses are neighing, the peasants are cursing in a dozen different dialects -

I am in Grandfather's store,

On the lower end of the market-place, right opposite the public well -

The store is full of peasants and peasant women, bargaining at the top of their voices;

The men are clad in rough sheepskin coats and fur caps;

The women are gay in bright-colored cottons and wear red kerchiefs around their heads;

My Grandfather is standing behind the counter measuring out rope to some peasants;

Grandmother is cutting a strip of linen for a peasant woman, chaff ering with another one at the same time, about the price of a pair of sandals -

And I am sitting there, behind the counter, on a sack of flour,

Playing with my black-eyed little cousin -

Kartüshkiya-Beróza!

Kartüshkiya-Ber6za!

It comes back to me suddenly -

That I am sitting here, with a newspaper in my hand,

Reading:

The Germans have seized the bridge-head at Kart(ishkiya-Beróza;

The Russians are retreating in good order across the marshes;

The town is inflames!"

- Alter Brody.
THE SOLDIER

IF I should die, think only this of me:

That there's some corner of a foreign field

That is for ever England. There shall be

In that rich earth a richer dust concealed;

A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,

Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam,

A body of England's, breathing English air,

Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.

And think, this heart, all evil shed away,

A pulse in the eternal mind, no less

Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given;

Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;

And laughter, learnt of friends; and gentleness,

In hearts at peace, under an English heaven.

- Rupert Brooke.

(A sublieutenant in the volunteer Naval Reserve, Rupert Brooke died from sunstroke on his way to the Dardanelles on April 23, 1915, and was buried in the

Greek island of Skyros.)

AFTERMATH

YES, he is gone, there is the message, see! Slain by a Prussian bullet as he led The men that loved him - dying, cheered them on My son, my eldest son. So be it, God!

This is no time for tears, no time to mourn, No time for sombre draperies of woe. Let the aggressors weep! for they have sinned The sin of Satan. Lust of power and pride, Mean envy of their neighbors' weal, a plot Hatched amidst glozing smiles and prate of peace Through the false years; until the Day, the Day When all this worship at the Devil's feet Should win the world. Ay, let them weep!

But we With eyes undimmed march on; our mourning robes Be-jewelled by the deeds of those that die, Lustre on lustre, till no sable patch Peeps through their brilliance.

In the years to come, When we have done our work, and God's own peace,
The Peace of Justice, Mercy, Righteousness, Like the still radiance of a summer's dawn, With tranquil glory floods a troubled world; Why then, perhaps, in the old hall at home, Where once I dreamed my eldest-born should stand The master, as I stand the master now, Our eyes, my wife, shall meet and gleam, and mark Niched on the walls in sanctity of pride, Hal's sword, Dick's medal, and the cross he won Yet never wore. That is the time for tears, Drawn from a well of love deep down; deep down, Deep as the mystery of immortal souls, That is the time for tears; not now, not now!

- Burg/iclerc.

THE RETURN

HOME across the clover When the war was over Came the young men slowly with an air of being old, On a morning blue and gold Through the weed-grown meadow-places Marched young soldiers with old faces, Marched the columns of the Emperor with dull, bewildered eyes, And the day was like a rose upon the skies; But they feared both light and life, Feared the aftermath of strife. Slow they came -

Now that it was over Silent and sick and lame,

iloin€' across the clover.

A woman knelt in a gardeiì by the road,

Patting a little mound of earth With aimless hands. Along the highway flowed

The gray tide, while the day was at its birth. She heard the drums, looked up, half smiled:

"Why do you march," she said, "and play at soldiers?
