VIVE LA FRANCE!

FRANCELINE rose in the dawning gray, And her heart would dance though she knelt to pray, For her man Michel had holiday, Fighting for France.

She offered her prayer by the cradle-side, And with baby palms folded in hers she cried: "If I have but one prayer, dear, crucified Christ - save France!

"But if I have two, then, by Mary's grace, Carry me safe to the meeting place, Let me look once again on my dear love's face, Save him for France!"

She crooned to her boy: "Oh, how glad he'll be, Little three-months old, to set eyes on thee! For, 'Rather than gold, would I give,' wrote he, 'A son to France.'

"Come, now, be good, little stray santereile,

For we're going by-by to thy papa Michel, But I'll not say where for fear thou wilt tell, Little pigeon of France!

"Six days' leave and a year between! But what would you have? In six days clean, Heaven was made," said Franceline, "Heaven and France."

She came to the town of the nameless name, To the marching troops in the street she came, And she held high her boy like a taper flame Burning for France.

Fresh from the trenches and gray with grime, Silent they march like a pantomime; "But what need of music? My heart beats time Vive la France!"

His regiment comes. Oh, then where is he? "There is dust in my eyes, for I cannot see, Is that my Michel to the right of thee, Soldier of France?"

Then out of the ranks a comrade fell, "Yesterday - 'twas a splinter of shell And he whispered thy name, did thy poor Michel, Dying for France."

The tread of the troops on the pavement throbbed Like a woman's heart of its last joy robbed, As she lifted her boy to the flag, and sobbed: "Vive la France !"

- Charlotte IIol?nes Crawford.
A HARROW GRAVE IN FLANDERS

HERE in the marshland, past the battered bridge,

One of a hundred grains untimely sown,

Here, with his comrades of the hard-won ridge He rests, unknown.

His horoscope had seemed so plainly drawn,

School triumphs, earned apace in work and play;

Friendships at will; then love's delightful dawn And mellowing day.

Home fostering hope; some service to the State;

Benignant age; then the long tryst to keep

Where in the yew-tree shadow congregate His fathers sleep.

Was here the one thing needful to distil

From life's alembic, through this holier fate, The man's essential soul, the hero-will? We ask; and wait. - Creu'e.

WHEN THEY HAVE MADE AN END

WHEN they have made an end Of their importunate crying over you "God speed," and "God defend,"

And time is swift and there is nought to do

But match with wilder hope our wild despair; When there is quiet, bend

Your lips to mine, and in the darkness there Wish me good courage, friend.

Gerald II. Crow.
"HOW SLEEP THE BRAVE"

NAY, nay, sweet England, do not grieve!

Not one of these poor men who died But did within his soul believe

That death for thee was glorified.

Ever they watched it hovering near

That mystery 'yond thought to plumb, Perchance sometimes in loathed fear

They heard cold Danger whisper, Come! -

Heard and obeyed. 0, if thou weep

Such courage and honor, beauty, care, Be it for joy that those who sleep

Only thy joy could share.

- Walter de la Mare.

THE DEFENDERS

His wage of rest at nightfall still

He takes, who sixty years has known Of ploughing over Cotsall hill

And keeping trim the Cotsall stone.

He meditates the dusk, and sees

Folds of his wonted shepherdings And lands of stubble and tall trees

Becoming insubstantial things.

And does he see on Cotsall bill -

Thrown even to the central shire The funnelled shapes forbidding still

The stranger from his cottage fire?

- John Drinkwater.
THE METAL CHECKS

(The scene is a bare room, with two shaded windows at the back, and a fireplace between them with a fire burning low. The room is furnished scantily with a few plain chairs, and a rough wooden table on which are piled a great many small wooden trays. The Counter, who is Death, sits at the table. He wears a loose gray robe, and his face is partly concealed by a gray veil. He does not look at The Bearer, but works mechanically and speaks in a monotonous tone. The Bearer is the World, that bears the burden of War. He wears a soiled robe of brown and green and he carries on his back a gunny-bag with the little metal disks that have been used for the identification of the slain common soldiers.)

THE BEARER

Here is a sack, a gunny sack,

A heavy sack I bring.

Here is toll of many a soul -

But not the soul of a king.

This is the toll of common men,

Who lived in the common way;

Lived upon bread and wine and love,

In the light of the common day.

This is the toll of working men, Blood and brawn and brain.

Who shall render us again

The worth of all the slain?

(As the Counter speaks, the Bearer pours out the disks on the table. The Bearer obeys the Counter.)

THE COUNTER

Pour them out on the table here.

Click ety-c licket y-cl a ck For every button a man went out,

And who shall call him back?

Clickety-clickety-clack

One - two - three four -

Every disk a soul!

Three score - four score -

So many boys went out to war.

Pick up that one that fell on the floor -

Didn't you see it roll?

That was a man a month ago.

This was a man. Row upon row -

Pile them in tens and count them so.

THE BEARER

I have an empty sack.

It is not large. Would you have said

That I could carry on my back

So great an army and all dead?
(As the Counter speaks the Bearer lays the sack over his arm and helps count.)

THE COUNTER

Put a hundred in each tray We can tally them best that way. Careful - do you understand You have ten men in your hand? There's another fallen - there Under that chair.

(The Bearer finds it and restores it.)

That was a man a month ago; He could see and feel and know. Then, into his throat there sped A bit of lead. Blood was salt in his mouth; he fell And lay amid the battle wreck. Nothing was left but this metal check And a wife and child, perhaps.

(The Bearer finds the bag on his arm troublesome. He holds it up, inspecting it.)

THE BEARER

What can one do with a thing like this? Neither of life nor death it is! For the dead serve not, though it served the dead. The wounds it carried were wide and red, Yet they stained it not. Can a man put food,

Potatoes or wheat, or even wood That is kind and burns with a flame to v: Living men who are comforted In a thing that has served so many c1: There is no thrift in a graveyard (lr( It's been shroud for too many rut I'll burn it and let the dead bless,

(He crosses himself and throws it into the lire. 11Û watches it burn. The Counter continues to pile up the metal checks, and drop them by hundreds into the trays, which he piles one upon another. The Bearer turns from the fire and speaks more s\\1y tlIITi h 1as before. He indicates the metal check.

Would not the blood of these maku t grcat ta

For men to sail their ships on? It may be No fish would swim in it, and the foul smell Would make the sailors sick. Perhaps in Hell There's some such lake for men who rush to war Prating of glory, and upon the shore Will stand the wives and children and old men Bereft, to drive them back again When they seek haven. Some such thing I thought the while I bore it on my back And heard the metal pieces clattering.

THE COUNTER

Four score five core

These aiul Inally more.

G
