THE PYRES

PYRES in the night, in the night!

And the roaring yellow and red.

Trooper, trooper, why so white?

We are out to gather our dead.

We have brought dry boughs from the bloody wood

And the torn hill-side;

We have felled great trunks, wet with blood

Of brothers that died;

We have piled them high for a flaming bed, Hemlock and ash and pine for a bed, A throne in the night, a throne for a bed -

And we go to gather our dead.

There where the oaks loom, dark and high,

Over the sombre hill,

Body on body, cold and still,

Under the stars they lie.

There where the silver river runs,

Careless and calm as fate,

Mowed, mowed by the terrible guns,

The stricken brothers wait.

There by the smoldering house, and there Where the red smoke hangs on the heavy air,

Under the ruins, under the hedge,

Cheek by cheek at the forest-edge;

Back to breast, three men deep,

Hearing not bugle or drum,

Iii the desperate trench they died to keep,

Under the starry dome they sleep,

Murmuring, "Brothers, come!"

This way! I heard a call Like a stag's when he

Under the willows I saw 1

Under the willows he ii

Give meyour hand. Rai p.

Lift his head. Strike a light.

This morning we shared a crust and

He wants no supper to-n iii

Take his feet. Here H

Broke all day long,

Moaning and shriekii. iHl

Bacchanalian song!

Last night he helped me bear

Men to hell's feting.

To-morrow, maybe, somewhere,

\\(, too, shall lie waiting.

I'yr in the iiih, in the night!

Weary and sick and dumb,
Under the flickering, faint starlight

The drooping gleaners come.

Out of the darkness, dim

Shadowy shadow-bearers,

Dragging into the bale-fire's rim

Pallid death-f arers.

Pyres in the night, in the night!

In the plain, on the hill.

No volleys for their last rite.

We need our powder - to kill.

High on their golden bed,

Pile up the dead!

Pyres in the night, in the night!

Torches, piercing the gloom!

Look! How the sparks take flight!

Stars, stars, make room!

Smoke, that was bone and blood!

Hark! The deep roar.

It is the souls telling God

The glory of WAR!

- Hermann Hagedorn.

NON-COMBATANT

BEFORE one drop of angry blood was shed

I was sore hurt and beaten to my knee;

Before one fighting man reeled back and died

The War-Lords struck at me.

They struck me down - an idle, useless mouth,

As cumbrous - na\ dead,

With life and heart afi

I take a dole instea

With life and heart afi

I take and eat the bread of charit\

In all the length of all this eager land,

No man has need of me.

That is my hurt - my burning, beating wound

That is the spear-thrust driven through my pri I

With aimless hands, and mouth that must be feJ,

I wait and stand aside.

Let me endure it, then, with stiffened lip:

I, even I, have suffered in the strife!

Let me endure it then - I give my pride

Where others give a life. - Cicely Hamilton.
"MEN WHO MARCH AWAY"

SONG OF THE SOLDIERS

WHAT of the faith and fire within us Men who march away Ere the barn-cocks say Night is growing gray, To hazards whence no tears can win us; What of the faith and fire within us Men who march away?

Is it a purblind prank, 0 think you, Friend with the musing eye Who watch us stepping by, With doubt and dolorous sigh? Can much pondering so hoodwink you! Is it a purblind prank, 0 think you, Friend with the musing eye?

Nay. We see well what we are doing, Though some may not see Dalliers as they be England's need are we; Her distress would set us rueinL Nay. We see well what we arc Though some may not sue!

Iii our heart of hearts believing Victory crowns the just, And that braggarts must Surely bite the dust, March we to the field ungrieving, lit our heart of hearts believing Victory crowns the just.

Hence the faith and fire within us Men who march away Ere the barn-cocks say Night is growing gray, To hazards whence no tears can win us; Hence the faith and fire within us Men who march away.

T/ioincis Hardy.
FROM THE YOUTH OF ALL NATIONS

THINK not, my elders, to rejoice

When from the nations' wreck we rise,

With a new thunder in our voice

And a new lightning in our eyes.

You called with patriotic sneers,

And drums and sentimental songs.

We came from out the vernal years

Thus bloodily to right your wrongs.

The sins of many centuries,

Sealed by your indolence and fright,

Have earned us these our agonies:

The thunderous appalling night

When from the lurid darkness came

The pains of poison and of shell,

The broken heart, the world's ill-fame,

The lonely arrogance of hell.

Faintly, as from a game afar,

Your wrangles and your patronage

Come drifting to the work of war

Which you have made our heritage.

Oh, chide us not. Not ours the crime.

Oh, praise us not. It is not won,

The fight which we shall make sublime

Beneath an unaccustomed sun.

The simple world of childhood fades

Beyond the Styx that all have passed;

r1his is a novel land of shades,

'Wherein no ancient glories last.

A land of desolation, blurred

By mists of penitence and woe,

Where every hope must be deferred

And every river backward flow.

Not on this grey and ruined plain

Shall we obedient recall

Your cities to rebuild again

For their inevitable fall.

We kneel at no ancestral shrine.

With admirable blasphemy

We desecrate the old divine

And dream a new eternity.

Destroy the history of men,

The weary cycle of decay.

We shall not pass that way again,

We tread a new untrodden way.
Though scattered wider yet our youth

On every sea and continent,

There shall come bitter with the truth

A fraction of the sons you sent.

When slowly with averted head,

Some darkly, some with halting feet,

And bowed with mourning for the dead

We walk the cheering, fluttering street,

A music terrible, austere

Shall rise from our returning ranks

To change your merriment to fear,

And slay upon your lips your thanks;

And on the brooding weary brows

Of stronger sons, close enemies,

Are writ the ruin of your house

And swift usurping dynasties.

- H. C. Harwood.

SOLDIER, SOLDIER

SOLDIER, soldier, off to the war, Take me a letter to my sweetheart 0. He's gone away to France With his carbine and his lance, And a lock of brown hair of his sweetheart 0.

Fair maid of London, happy may you be To know so much of your sweetheart 0. There's not a handsome lad, To get the chance he's had, But would skip, with a kiss for his sweetheart 0.

Soldier, soldier, whatever shall I do If the cruel Germans take my sweetheart 0? They'll pen him in the sail And starve him thin and pale, With never a kind word from his sweetheart 0.

Fair maid of London, is that all you see Of the lad you've taken for your sweetheart 0? He'll make his prison ring With his God Save the King And his God bless the blue eyes of my sweetheart 0!
