THE BROKEN ROSE

TO KING ALBERT

SHY, youthful, silent - and misunderstood In the white glare of Kinghood thou didst stand. The sceptre in thy hand Seemed but a flower the Fates had tossed to thee, And thou wert called, perchance half-scornfully, Albert the Good.

To-day thou standest on a blackened grave, Thy broken sword still lifted to the skies. Thy pure and fearless eyes Gaze into Death's grim visage unappalled And by the storm-swept nations thou art called Albert the Brave.

Tossed on a blood-red sea of rage and hate The frenzied world rolls forward to its doom. But high above the gloom Flashes the fulgent beacon of thy fame, The nations thou bast saved exalt thy name Albert the Great!

* * * * * * *

Albert the good, the brave, the great, thy land Lies at thy feet, a crushed and morient rose Trampled and desecrated by thy foes. One day a greater Belgium will be born, But what of this dead Belgium wracked and torn? What of this rose flung out upon the sand? .

Behold! Afar where sky and waters meet A white-robed Figure walketh on the sea. (Peace goes before Him and her face is sweet.) As once He trod the waves of Galilee He comes again the tumult sinks to rest, The stormy waters shine beneath His feet. He sees the dead rose lying in the sand, He lifts the dead rose in His holy hand And lays it at His breast.

O broken rose of Belgium, thou art blest!

Annie Vivanti Chartres.
THE WIFE OF FLANDERS

Low and brown barns thatched and repatched and tattered

Where I had seven sons until to-day,

A little hill of hay your spur has scattered

This is not Paris. You have lost the way.

You, staring at your sword to find it brittle,

Surprised at the surprise that was your plan,

Who, shaking and breaking barriers not a little,

Find never more the death-door of Sedan.

Must I for more than carnage call you claimant,

Paying you a penny for each son you slay?

Man, the whole globe in gold were no repayment

For what you have lost. And how shall I repay?

What is the price of that red spark that caught me

From a kind farm that never had a name?

What is the price of that dead man they brought me?

For other dead men do not look the same.

How should I pay for one poor graven steeple

Whereon you shattered what you shall not know,

How should I pay you, miserable people?

How should I pay you everything you owe?

Unhappy, can I give you back your honor ?

Though I forgave would any man forget?

While all the great green land has trampled on her

The treason and terror of the night we met.

Not any more in vengeance or in pardon

An old wife bargains for a bean that's hers.

You have no word to break; no heart to harden.

Ride on and prosper. You have lost your spurs.

- Gilbert K. Chesterton.
THEY HELD THEIR GROUND

GREY broke the light of that Sabbath dawn On the English pickets,

Gold rose the sun o'er the unreaped corn And the Hainault thickets.

Through the park at home, where the young rooks caw'd, And the dew lay deep on the churchyard sward, Went Mary, arisen to meet her Lord -

While Mons must be held for England.

Clear broke the day as the bugles blew, Who shall hear them to-morrow?

Sternly the thunder of Edom grew, And the tally of sorrow.

Right wing, left wing, centre attacked, Legions launched like a cataract, But the English stood to their plighted pact, -

Yes, Mons must be held for England!

Pitiless noon, when the screaming shard Left the air acrid.

But they looked on Malplaquet and Oudenarde, So the soil was sacred.

And they thought (who knows?) on some Surrey lane,

On some mother's kiss, or some school refrain,

And they tightened the girths of their saddles again,

Since Mons must be held for England.

Red set the sun in the angry skies Ere the fight was over.

Fierce were the beams of the cruisers' eyes By the cliffs of Dover.

News - ill news - for Namur is lost!

No need for the Eagle to count the cost.

But Mons was the merest hill at the most,

Yet Mons had been held for England.

Lord, Who hast known what a slain Son is, Judge Thou their labor!

Lifted they eyes to the vanities? Deceived their neighbor?

Sift Thou the souls that are utterly Thine,

Clean are those cold hands of covert design;

Silent they lie in their last long line,

Who died to hold Mons for England!

- Philip B yard Clayton.
VISION OF WAR

1.

I WENT out into the night of quiet stars;

I looked up at the wheeling heavens, at the mysterious firmament;

I thought of the awful ("stances out there, of the incredible magnitudes, of space and silence arid eternity;

I thought of man, his life, his love, his dream;

I thought of his body, how it is born and grows, and of his spirit that cannot be explained.

All about me slept the land in peace, and nature slept in deep serenity;

An off-shore wind had died at sunset, the bay was calm and golden as twilight fell;

Not a cloud broke the clear and tender blue of the evening sky.

Then the quiet stars came out, the air grew cool with the breath of night;

A land-breeze flurried, wafting the odor of damp woods and late hay-fields;

A gentle breeze, that scarcely turned the sleeping leaves.

I walked on through the village, I saw the lights go out in houses as men and women prepared for bed;

Safe and secure, the homes of my neighbors rested in the shadow of tall trees, that had been growing there peacefully a long time;

I passed on into the country, crickets were singing in the fields, fireflies were glimmering in the pastures among low growths of spruce and pine;

I mounted a hill, high overhead brooded the majestic and silent heavens;

On the eastern horizon a great bright star arose, casting a track across the bay.

I have never seen the world so calm, the air so clear and still;

I have never known an hour so full of quietness.

2.

IImr of the Jar / now - and here - on this same earth, and under this same sky !

oo'!-Now!- The War!- The War!- The War!

Night, and a sodden field, and starlight over all,

And on the ground the bodies of dead men lying;
Tumbled, broken, grotesque, in attitudes unhuman, in lumpish, swollen heaps, they lie,

Where death suddenly snatched them up and flung them down.

A strange, dark, silent scene;

Here passed the awful charge three days ago;

Here met the choking volley, shattered out and fell.

Three days and nights they have been lying here;

No help could reach them, cast between the battle lines;

No help is needed now.

Slowly above their heads the conflict wore itself away;

Calm settled on the shaking, riven air;

The sharp cries of the wounded stopped one by one, their groans grew fainter;

A few crawled off -the others lay as they had fallen, under the sun and stars;

Then the third night, and peace at last, the quietness restored.

3.

Listen! - could one be living? - come this way;

Here where a score of bodies are drawn mysteriously together,

A turning face catches a gleam of starlight,

A hand moves, winnowing the air.

Water !" - No use, no use - too late;

His breast is shot away - don't move him - God, how he bled!

What is it, comrade? A letter - make a light:

We have not heard since you left home . . . . I cannot bear it .........

Turn the, sheet over: - "Oh, my dear, be careful I"

Here is the signature - the address - a distant village;

I have been there - an ancient, quiet village of the north,

Fronting the open sea.

Yes, comrade, I will write - he smiles:

To lie here, thinking, suffering, remembering;

To be left to die alone!

4.

But not alone:

Passing brother, you have yet a grim companion;

Along the edge of the thicket just now, as I went to the brook down there for water,

I stumbled over something that nnit have hetii left. from the charge a week ago:

A body that held the remnants of a man.

He had dragged himself to the brook, he lay 1111

bedded in tall waving grass;

His stomach had been ripped open by shrapnel, maggots were heaving in the wound
