Flutter in the breeze

As they please.

And I weep;

For the lime tree is in blossom

And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom.

And the plashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain

Comes down the garden paths.

The dripping never stops.

Underneath my stiffened gown

Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin,

A basin in the midst of hedges grown

So thick, she cannot see her lover hiding.

But she guesses he is near, And the sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear

Hand upon her.

What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown!

I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground.

All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground.

I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths,

And he would stumble after

Bewildered by my laughter.

I should see the sun flashing from his sword hilt and the buckles on his shoc.

I would choose To lead, him in a maze along tIR patterned intth,

A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover,

Till he caught me in the shade,

And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me,

Aching, melting, unafraid.

With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops, And the plopping of the waterdrops, All about us in the open afternoon I am very like to swoon With the weight of this brocade,

For the sun sifts through the shade.

Underneath the fallen blossom In my bosom,

Is a letter I have hid.

It was brought to me this morning by a rider from the Duke.

"Madam, we regret to inform you that Lord Hartwell

Died in action Thursday sen'night."

As I read it in the white, morning sunlight,

The letters squirmed like snakes.

"Any answer, Madam?" said my footman.
"No," I told him. "See that the messenger takes some refreshment. No, no answer." And I walked into the garden, Up and down the patterned paths, In my stiff, correct brocade. The blue and yellow flowers stood up proudly in the sun, Each one. I stood upright too, Held rigid to the pattern By the stiffness of my gown. Up and down I walked, Up and down.

In a month he would have been my husband. In a month, here, underneath this lime, We would have broke the pattern; He for me, and I for him, He as Colonel, I as Lady, On this shady seat. He had a whim That sunlight carried blessing. And I answered, "It shall be as you have said." Now he is dead.

In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down

The patterned garden paths in my stiff, brocaded gown. The squills and daffodils Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow. I shall () Up and down, In my gown. Gorgeously arrayed, Boned and stayed. And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace By each button, hook, and lace. For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders, In a pattern called a war. Christ! What are patterns for?

- Amy Lowell.
THE DEBT

No more old England will they see The men who've died for you and me.

So lone and cold they lie; but we, We still have life; we still may greet Our pleasant friends in home and street; We still have life, are able still To climb the turf of Bignor Hill, To see the placid sheep go by, To hear the sheep-dog's eager cry, To feel the sun, to taste the rain, To smell the Autumn scents again Beneath the brown and gold and red Which old October's brush has spread, To hear the robin in the lane, To look upon the English sky.

So young they were, so strong and well, Until the bitter summons fell Too young to die. Yet there on foreign soil they lie, So pitiful, with glassy eye And limbs all tumbled anyhow: Quite finished, now.

On every heart, lest we forget Secure at home - engrave this debt!

Too delicate is flesh to be The shield that nations interpose 'Twixt red Ambition and his foes The bastion of Liberty. So beautiful their bodies were, Built with so exquisite a care: So young and fit and lithe and fair. The very flower of us were they, The very flower, but yesterday! Yet now so pitiful they lie, Where love of country bade them hie To fight this fierce Caprice - and die. All mangled now, where shells have burst And lead and steel have done their worst; The tender tissues ploughed away, The year's slow processes effaced The Mother of us all, disgraced.

And some leave wives behind, young wives; Already some have launched new lives: A little daughter, little son; For thus this blundering world goes on. But never more will any see The old secure felicity, The kindnesses that made us glad Before the world went mad.
They'll never hear another bird, Another gay or loving word Those men who lie so cold and lone, Far in a country not their own; Those men who died for you and me, That England still might sheltered be And our smug lives be much the same (Although to live is almost shame).

- E. V. Lucas.

HIS ONLY WAY

I STOOD to-day high on the Downs

And talked long with a shepherd lad; I found him pondering by his sheep,

Motionless, staring-eyed, and sad.

But, leaning on his Pyecombe crook -

Long polished by his father's hand He told, with slow-tongued eagerness,

This love-tale of his Sussex land:

"Me and my mate, Dick, loved a girl,

But he was always down at plough, And in and out the village, like,

And - well, he 'listed, anyhow;

"While I bides up here 'long me sheep;

And our girl, though she liked us two Equal it seemed, she took his ring -

As, sure, she'd right enough to do.

"Well, Dick he fought and met his death,

Somewheres in Flanders, so 'tis said; And I can't go to her, I feels,

Because of Dick there lying dead.
"They do tell she gets pine and thin,

And mopes and mourns that bitterly, But I can't go and say a word,

Because he died for her, you see.

"And day by day I sees it more -

I've pieced it all out clear and plain As I must go like Dick has gone,

Afore I looks at her again.

"Old wall-eyed Bob, there, '11 pine awhile,

And listen, maybe, for my call; And master, he'll be proper mad,

With lambing coming on, and all.

"But there 'tis, and there ain't two ways:

He went, and 'tis the only thing; Else I shall grow to hate the hill

And get ashamed o' shepherding.

"That there's her window down below,

Aside the copse, where I could see (It seems a score o' years agone)

Our girl stand waving up to me.

"Come Sunday, then, I'll 'list for sure

(The same as you done, Dick, old lad!) Then, if I gets back, I can go

Fair, like, and face her proud and glad."

- Habberton Lvl/iarn.

CHR1STMAS, 1915

Now is the midnight of the nations: dark Even as death, beside her blood-dark seas, Earth, like a mother in birth agonies, Screams in her travail, and the planets hark Her million-throated terror. Naked, stark, Her torso writhes enormous, and her knees Shudder against the shadowed Pleiades, Wrenching the night's imponderable arc.

Christ! What shall be delivered to the morn Out of these pangs, if ever indeed another Morn shall succeed this night, or this vast mother Survive to know the blood-spent offspring, torn From her racked flesh? -What splendor from the smother? What new-wing'd world, or mangled god still-born? - Percy MacKaye.
