

THE REAPERS

RED are the hands of the Reapers,

And the harvest is so white!

Red are the feet that are treading

The threshing floors by night:

And, on the young brows, dripping

As with the dews of morn,

Deep rose-red are the woundings,

Like scars of a crown of thorn.

Tired, so many, with reaping, -

Tired with treading the grain,

Still they lie, in their sleeping,

Low in the Valley of Pain, -

Never again to be quaffing

The joy of life, like wine;

Never again to be laughing

In Youth's glad hour divine.

Birds shall sing in the branches,

Children dance by the shore;

But they who shared the red reaping

Shall come back never more.
Let whoso can forget them,

Walking life's noisy ways;

We who have looked on the Reapers

Go quietly, all our days.

- Lauchian Maclean Watt.

France1916. (Chaplain of the Force.)

BELGIUM

La Belgique ne regrette rien.

NOT with her ruined silver spires, Not with her cities shamed and rent, Perish the imperishable fires That shape the homestead from the tent.

Wherever men are staunch and free, There shall she keep her fearless state, And, homeless, to great nations be The home of all that makes them great.

- Edith Wharton.
THE WAKENED GOD

THE War-god wakened drowsily;

There were gold chains about his hands.

He said: "And who shall reap my lands

And bear the tithes to Death for me?

"The nations stilled my thunderings;

They wearied of my steel despair,

The flames from out my burning hair:

Is there an ending of such things?"

Low laughed the Earth, and answered: "When Was any changeless law I gave Changed by my sons intent to save,

By puny pitying hands of men?

"I feel no ruth for some I bear.

The swarming, hungering overflow Of crowded millions, doomed to go,

They must destroy who chained you there.

"For some bright stone or shining praise They stint a million bodies' breath, And sell the women, shamed, to death,

And send the men brief length of days.

"They kill the bodies swift for me, And kill the souls you gave to peace. . You were more merciful than these,

Old master of my cruelty.

"Lo, souls are scarred and virtues dim: Take back thy scourge of ministry, Rise from thy silence suddenly, Lest these still take Death's toll to him I"

The War-God snapped his golden chain: His mercies thundered down the world, And lashing battle-lines uncurled

And scourged the crouching lands again.

Margaret Widdemer.
FROM A FLEMISH GRAVEYARD

(January, 1915)

A YEAR hence may the grass that waves O'er English men in Flemish graves, Coating this clay with green of peace And softness of a year's increase, Be kind and lithe as English grass To bend and nod as the winds pass; It was for grass on English hills These bore too soon the last of ills.

And may the wind be brisk and clean, And singing cheerfully between The bents a pleasantburdened song To cheer these English dead along; For English songs and English winds Are they that bred these English minds.

And may the circumstantial trees Dip, for these dead ones, in the breeze, And make for them their silver play Of spangled boughs each shiny day.

Thus may these look above, and see And hear the wind in grass and tree, And watch a lark in heaven stand, And think themselves in their own land.

- lob Aneurin Williams.
THE FIRST BATTLE OF YPRES'

GREY field of Flanders, grim old battle-plain,

What armies held the iron line round Ypres in the rain, From Bixschoote to Baecelaere and down to the Lys river?

Merry men of England, Men of the green shires, From the winding waters, The elm-trees and the spires, And the lone village dreaming in the downland yonder. Half a million Huns broke over them in thunder,

Roaring seas of Huns swept on and sunk again,

1 AUTHOR'S NOTE. -In the first Battle of Ypres, which was fought in October-November, 1914, a thin line of British, supported on each wing by small bodies of French, stopped the push of an immense German army on Calais. The allusion in the latter part of the poem is not to "the angels of Mons," but to a story received from a very competent witness. On three occasions the Germans broke through our line, then paused and retired, for no apparent reason. On each of these occasions prisoners, when asked the cause of their retirement, replied: "We saw your enormous Reserves." We had no Reserves. This story was incidentally confirmed by the remark of another officer on the curious conduct of the Germans in violently shelling certain empty fields behind our lines.

Where fought the men of England round Ypres in the rain,

On the grim plain of Flanders, whose earth is fed with slaughter.

North-country fighting men from the mine and the loom,

Highlander and lowlander stood up to death and doom,

From Bixschoote to Baecelaere and down to the Lys river.

London men and Irish, Indian men and French, Charging with the bayonet, Firing in the trench,

Fought in that furious fight, shoulder to shoulder.

Leapt from their saddles to charge in fierce disorder,

The Life Guards, mud and blood for the scarlet and the plume,

And they hurled back the foemen as the wind the sea spume,

From Bixschoote to Baecelaere and down to the Lys river.

But the huge Hun masses yet mounted more and more,

Like a giant wave gathering to whelm the sweet shore,

While swift the exultant foam runs on before and over.
