FROM AMERICA

OH, England, at the smoking trenches dying For all the world,

Our hearts beat and we watch your bright flag flying While ours is furled;

We who are neutral (yet each lip with fervor The word abjures) :

Oh, England, never name us the time-server! Our hearts are yours:

We that so glory in your high decision, So trust your goal;

All Europe in our blood, but yours our vision, Our speech, our soul!

- Elizabeth Townsend Swift.

THE TRUMPET

Tiiy trumpet lies in the dust.

The wind is weary, the light is dead. Ah, the evil day!

Come fighters, carrying your flags and singers with your songs!

Come pilgrims, hurrying on your journey!

The trumpet lies in the dust waiting for us.

I was on my way to the temple with my evening offerings,

Seeking for the heaven of rest after the day's dusty toil;

Hoping my hurts would be healed and stains in my garments washed white,

When I found thy trumpet lying in the dust.

Has it not been the time for me to light my lamp?

Has my evening not come to bring me sleep?

0, thou blood-red rose, where have my poppies faded?

I was certain my wanderings were over and my debts all paid

When suddenly I came upon thy trumpet lying in the dust.
Strike my drowsy heart with thy spell of youth!

Let my joy in life blaze up in fire.

Let the shafts of awakening fly piercing the heart of night and a thrill of dread shake the palsied blindness,

I have come to raise thy trumpet from the dust.

Sleep is no more for me - my walk shall be through showers of arrows.

Some shall run out of their houses and come to my side - some shall weep.

Some in their beds shall toss and groan in dire dreams:

For to-night thy trumpet shall be sounded.

From thee I had asked peace only to find shame.

Now I stand before thee -help me to don my armor!

Let hard blows of trouble strike fire into my life.

Let my heart beat in pain - beating the drum of thy victory.

My hands shall be utterly emptied to take up thy trumpet.

- Rabindranath Tagore.

ENGLAND'S DEAD

(" Make them to be numbered with thy Saints: in glory everlasting.")

HOMEWARD the long ships leap; swift-shod with joy,

Striding the deep sea-dykes fast home they fare, -

Where is my wedded love? Where is my boy?

Where go the dead that died for England, where?

Homeward the long ships leap; but not with these

Thy boy, thy wedded love, 0 gentle-eyed

Woman of England, nor far over seas

Mixing with dull earth sleep the dead that died

For England. They, in God's completed aims,

Bear each his part; unseen of bounded sight,

Down the vast firmament there floats and flames,

Crested with stars and panoplied in light,

Of strenuous clean souls a long array,

With lambent lance and white, bright, blinding sword,

All riding upon horses, - what are they?

They are the dead which died in Christ their Lord

For England, from old time; with God made one,

As on the mount the triple vision shone,
So shine they now, and like the noontide sun

Before them all the fair Saint George rides on.

There goes the boy of Crécy whispering low

To him of Agincourt, a kingly pair,

With many mighty men which bent the bow, -

There go the dead that died for England, there;

There go those quenchiess Talbots, there the flower

Of Devon, Grenville, Gilbert, mariners rare,

She too who thought foul scorn of Philip's power, -

There go the dead that died for England, there;

And Sidney who the rippling cup resigned,

And happy Wolfe; wan Pitt released from care,

Nelson the well-beloved and all his kind, -

There go the dead that died for England, there;

And he who brake the Corsican's strong spell,

And Nicholson, impatient of despair,

And Gordon, faithful, desolate sentinel, -

There go the dead that died for England, there;

And there unhelmeted, ungirt of brand,

Victoria moves with mild, maternal air,

Still vigilant, still prayerful for the land, -

There go the dead that died for England, there.

Nor ride they idly nor with indolent rein, Irresolute, as men that seek no foe,

But by the pathless sea, by peak and plain,

Bright-eyed, stern-lipped, all day, all night, they go

Forth as a fire that snatches arid devours

Wind-withered woods, so go they swift and fell,

Warring with principalities and powers,

Hunting through space the swart, old bands of Hell;

And all the sounding causeways of the spheres

Ring like white iron with the rhythmic tread

Of these and their innumerable peers;

But most round England muster England's dead,

Round England cradled in her roaring seas,

With Arctic snows white-girdled, bathed in suns

Asian and Australasian, there go these;

And where one solitary trader runs

His English keel, and where one lonely sword

Glimmers for England, one unsleeping brain

Watches and works for England, thitherward

Gather the bright souls of her servants slain

For her, and lock their shimmering ranks, and sweep

Round England's child as sweeps the northern gale

Round some stark pine-tree on the moorland steep, And from the flash and rattle of their mail

S
Hell's pale marauders shudderiugly recoil

Frustrate. 0 glad condition and sublime Of our undying dead, to fight and foil

The ancient foe, continually to climb

Through God's high order of His Saints, to meet

Some soul whose star-like name lit all their course, And commune with him, to discern and greet

Old kindred, love, and friendship, hound and horse;

To see God face to face, and still to see

And labor for the loves that grope on earth, To wait serenely till all souls shall be

One in God's aristocracy of worth, -

O glad condition and sublime! whereto That southern tomb thy hands may never tend Was but the gateway thy loved boy passed through,

Thy wedded love passed through, that he might wend

Homeward to thee; thou can'st not see the blaze

Of his great blade nor hear his trumpets blare, Yet thick as brown leaves round about thy ways,

There go the dead that died for England, there.

- Frank Taylor.

(This poem was written about 1902, and was published in the Spectator of June 12, 1915, having been found among the author's papers by his executor, by whose consent it is here reprinted.)
SAID ATTILA THE HUN TO

IT was not here - it was not there, It was not now - it was not then Beyond the bounds of Otherwhere, Two tyrant lords of vanished men They meet in shadowy mail and casque, They greet, and of each other ask.

(Two shades whose work on earth was dire, Mid darted lights and whelming gloom, Their eyes the lamps of lethal fire, Fierce thirst for power their endless doom To seek, to be thrown back, to seek! To learn the triumph of the weak!)

"Lo, I am Attila, who laid Proud Aquileia in the dust; The Slav, the Teuton, slaked my blade Of blood I had the sacred lust! Yea, Attila am I; but thou, Who has our brand upon thy brow!"

"I, too, made treasure-cities smoke, And blood with ashes mixed therein;

And from the sky, on sleeping folk, Mine engines did full vengeance win!" To whom said Attila the Hun, "In all of this thou liast well done!"

"But I," the other shade replies, "Where'er I dealt the killing blow, Or gave mine iron cross as prize, Therewith I bade God's blessing go . .

• • . Then, Attila fell back, outdone God's scourge, and not His favored son!

-Edith M. Thomas.
