THE RETURN

I HEARD the rumbling guns. I saw the smoke,

The unintelligible shock of hosts that still, Far off, unseeing, strove and strove again;

And beauty flying naked down the hill

From morn to eve: and the stern night cried Peace!

And shut the strife in darkness: all was still, Then slowly crept a triumph on the dark

And I heard Beauty singing up the hill.

John Freeman.

THE, GIFT

I is eyes are bright and eager, with the brightness of the sun,

(England, he gives them you)

his bands are strong for climbing and his feet are swift to run,

(England, he gives them you)

1-Ic has knowledge of the meadows, in the dreamy autumn days,

The brown hill, and the gold hill, and the green forgotten ways,

(But he leaves them now for you).

There's a certain ancient city where he once was free and young,

(But he leaves it now for you),

Where Oxford tales are spoken, and Oxford ways are sung,

(But he leaves them now for you)

And his heart is often weary, for that dear old river shore,

And he thinks a little sadly, of the days that come no more,

(But he gives them up for you).
If his dust is one day lying, in an unfamiliar land,

(England, he went for you)

Oh, England, sometimes think of him, of thousands, only one,

In the dawning, or the noonday, or the setting of the sun,

(As once he thought of you).

For to him and many like him, there seemed no other way

(England, he asked not why)

The giving up of all things, for ever and for aye,

(England, he asked not why)

And so he goes unshrinking, from those dearest paths of home,

For he knows, great-hearted England, let whatever fate may come

You will never let him die!

- H. Rex Freslon.

(Killed in action in France, Jan. 24, 1916.)

PASSOVER

THE doors of life are two; And, on some midnight still,

The Lord shall pass your way, and do According to your will.

For, lo, if your desire Be set upon the hearth,

There He will kindle you a fire, Pleasant and of the earth;

And you shall take delight For ever in that flame,

But not again shall come a night When He will call your name.

Or, if you count it sin That darkness wrap His shrine,

His breath shall light instead therein The spark that is divine;

No shelter from the cold, No ease it shall afford

But by that gleam you shall behold The glory of the Lord.
Now choose you! . . . nor forget, Choosing this last alone,

The blood upon your lintel set For sign, must be your own.

- J. II. Friedloender.

IRELAND

The Dreamers: -

OUTPOST of Europe, watcher of the seas,

Bulwark to part the dark Atlantic tide,

Still in the sunset lost Hesperides

Raise peak on peak, and purple galleys glide,

Kings for their oarsmen, queens for garnishing,

Gleam of their gold that sets the west afire,

Till the night falls, that knows not any thing,

And the new day brings back the old desire.

The Mediterraneans:

We are your seamen, seamen from the south:

We sought and found you ere the Tyrian sailed,

Steered with glad shouting through the harbormouth,

Parted the woods, and left you half unveiled

Ours, ours, that ventured through the forest-bars,

Saw the brown spate and sweetness of the glen,

And the great breasts domed up against the stars,

Held you and loved you; we were first of men.

The Northmen: -

These were thy clansmen, dark with sun and toil,

These knew the Atlas, these the desert knew,
Builders of homesteads, thirsty for the soil,

Green lands and droughtiess, carpeted with dew.

We that came after, racing prow to prow,

Men of the grey lands, narrowing to the pole,

Strangers and fair-haired - none are strangers now;

We gave our heart's blood; you gave us back a soul.

The Fighting Line: -

Heart's blood of our blood, is the throb so weak,

Ireland, our Ireland, lost beyond the seas?

Thousands of living, nay dead men, rise and speak,

From Flanders on to the ancestral Cyclades.

These are from Ireland, these to Ireland calling,

Look to the sunrise, shaft on shaft unfurled,

Look to the light once more on Valmy falling,

Where France in arms first clarioned the world.

-G. A. J. C.

TIER "ALLOWANCE!"

'ER looked at me bunnet (I knows 'e aint noo 'Er turned up 'er nose at the patch on me shoe And 'er sez, pointed like, "Liza, what do 'e do With yer 'llowance?"

'Er looked at the children (they'm clean and they'm neat, But their clothes be as plain as the victuals they eat) And 'er scz, "Why not dress 'em up flue for a treat With yer 'ilowance?"

I sees 'er long feather and triinrny-up gown:

I sez, as I looks 'er quite square up and down, "Do 'e think us keeps 'oliday 'ere in the town With my 'llowance?"

"Not likely!" I sez. And I bids 'er "Good-day !" And I kneels on the shabby old canvas to pray For Bill, who's out fightin' such brave miles away. (And I put back a foo o' they coins for 'e may Be needin' a part - may my Bill - who can say? Of my 'llowance!)

Li/lico (;ord.
BETWEEN THE LINES

WHEN consciousness came back, he found he lay Between the opposing fires, but could not tell On which hand were his friends; and either way For him to turn was chancy - bullet and shell Whistling and shrieking over him, as the glare Of searchlights scoured the darkness to blind day. He scrambled to his hands and knees ascare, Dragging his wounded foot through puddled clay, And tumbled in a hole a shell had scooped At random in a turnip-field between The unseen trenches where the foes lay cooped Through that unending battle of unseen, Dead-locked, leaguestretching armies; and quite spent He rolled upon his back within the pit, And lay secure, thinking of all it meant His lying in that little hole, sore hit, But living, while across the starry sky Shrapnel and shell went screeching overhead Of all it meant that he, Tom Dodd, should lie Among the Belgian turnips, while his bed If it were he, indeed, who'd climbed each night, Fagged with the day's work, up the narrow stair,

And slipt his clothes off in the candle-light, Too tired to fold them neatly on a chair The way his mother'd taught him - too dog-tired After the long day's serving in the shop, Inquiring what each customer required, Politely talking weather, fit to drop

And now for fourteen days and nights, at least, He hadn't had his clothes off, and had lain In muddy trenches, napping like a beast With one eye open, under sun and rain And that unceasing hell-fire .

It was strange How things turned out - the chances! You'd just got To take your luck in life, you couldn't change Your luck.

And so here he was lying shot Who just six months ago had thought to spend His days behind a counter. Still, perhaps . And now, God only knew how he would end!

He'ld like to know how many of the chaps Had won back to the trench alive, when he Had fallen wounded and been left for dead, If any! .

This was different, certain!, From selling knots of tape and reels of th
