ULTIMATE HELL

SATAN? I am. The Other One? "The Great I am"? Who knows? Millenniums ago Some rumor ran that He existed yet! I half believed it true, as loath to think That He'd outwitted me, or suffered harm To rob me of a thrill. Eternity Is deadly now, I own.

Ilis name, you say, was God. As I recall, it was. Priests mumbled it, And cutthroats bawled it for an oath, Then, all at once, the priests began to think, And ceased to pray. 'Twas quite the oddest thing that I have known, And my dear Foe became thenceforth a myth, Or faded, like the morning cloud, with man's Immortal hope (poor Tyndall's, eke, whose word I'll not forget) into the azure past.

What of my kingdom now? I have no kingdom now. Long time ago I tiIC(l of kings, as God in 11i5 day tired.
They were too boist'rous in their wickedness, Too bloody and uncouth. They weren't well bred. I heard the last of them Reigned somewhere on the Baltic Sea, A sodden Hohenzollern prince, Descended from that self-drunk one Who made a War - the only war That lately 1 had cared about.

It promised well, bitt soon went wrong. Ten million men, yea, twice ten million men, Swarmed forth to fight for what they called ideals: From Belgium's mills and mines, from England's marts, From fairest France and sun-warm Italy, From Serbia and the Russian steppe, to fight For Right! Oh God! (old habits rise in me) For Liberty! They left their little ones, Their wives, their gold! They flung away their lives As storms throw pearls of rain. They wearied 10! They were too much like Christ, the Who died forgiving oH ol With him to Paradi.

And so there is no Hel1.' I'll not say that. The name is out of date, but things sometimes

t'1 i\ i\ I H i 1 tI I It 0 1

\Vhen things and men are dead. There is a land That once was dedicate to Liberty: A land that cast off kings and set slaves free. But when it gathered wealth, and fame, and power,

nd could have struck the blow that might have saved Throughout the world the things for which men died, The things for which long rows of graves were made, it would not strike. it let its own go gurgling down to death, And did not smite.

Self-made, self-damned, self-governing, it hammers now, and smelts; And ever, as it pounds, it sings, This Tubal Cain - of Peace! And golden dollars jingle in the song, Beneath a sulphuring sky it dwells - at peace In riveless unity of self-content.

I'm growing old? I do not relish quite The modern way, a Democratic Hell? I'm growing old? I wonder if I sometimes wish ['Ii at God would come again!

- Franklin H. Giddings.

rk, December 5, 1915.
"I HAVE NO RING"

I WATCH and listen with a dreadful fear, I wait and long and tremble in a breath; Though he is gone to fight, yet is he near; I have him always though he meet with Death: In the lone night time when my eyes are dim I cry with terror, yet my heart will sing; I long, I long with sickness, yet with dread: My fear is double - more, far more, for him Who not yet lives than him who may be dead: I carry that which masters everything: And yet - to have his face and not his name, To be so loved, so longed for, yet -my shanie! Gladness and dread alike my love to sting. I bear his burden - but - I have no ring.

- Bernard Gilbert.

THE DEAD

TO ONE KILLED IN ACTION

DEAR love, they say thou art at rest.

I heed them not, though thou art long,

Dreaming that thou, with heart still strong For fighting, followest some far quest.

They say, dear heart, I must forget.

Nay, though the agony be deep,

That memory can never sleep. Thy passioned kisses linger yet.

They say, dear love, the daisies blithe

Shall o'er thy head in summer spring.

Daisies! . . . I see thy body swing lithe and strong-limbed, above the scythe.

])ear love, they say that in the light

Of Heaven's joy our souls shall meet.

Dear God! I want thee now, the sweet S[,-,ht of thee -- not in heaven - to-night

- hold Gillespie.
