TO THE TROUBLER OF THE WORLD

AT last we know you, War-lord. You, that flung The gauntlet down, fling down the mask you wore, Publish your heart, and let its pent hate pour, You that had God for ever on your tongue. We are old in war, and if in guile we are young, Young also is the spirit that evermore

Burns in our bosom ev'n as heretofore, Nor are these thews unbraced, these nerves unstrung. We do not with God's name make wanton play;

We are not on such easy terms with Heaven But in Earth's hearing we can verily say, Our hands are pure; for peace, for peace we have striven ";

And not by Earth shall he be soon forgiven Who lit the fire accurst that flames to-day.

WILLIAM WATSON Times August 6, 1914

A
TO BRITAIN (BEFORE HER DECLARATION OF WAR)

ART thou awake at last, or wilt thou sleep

Still on the downy cushions of thy sloth,

Trusting the ambient armour of the deep

To ward the foeman's darts? However loth,

Thou must arise, draw thine own armour on,

Unsheathe thy sword, and, faithful, take thy stand,

Foremost amid thy friends. Thy banners shone

On Belgian fields before; as now, thy land

Was menaced then; as then, be strong, endure!

But when the dark days pass, if pass they do,

Slumber no more, in foolish dream secure;

With blood and sweat anneal thy sword anew.

FRANCIS COUTTS

ARMAGEDDON

MEN talk of Armageddon! Has the World Lost all her garnered wisdom? Must we scan The Devil's legions, Ban and Arriere-Ban, Bear challenges with flags of war unfurled, That foolish prince to foolish prince has hurled, While grinning Glory's pale horse heads the van, And far to rear round wretched Everyman The coils of Dragon Agony are curled? Quicken, ye peoples. Look to it, ye kings, Who break an age in pieces for your play: Please God your trampling vanities will jar A sleeping giant, and such petty things As crowns and Cesars shall at last make way Before mankind's Republic, ending war.

JUSTIN HUNTLY McCARTHY Daily Chronicle, Augusi 3 ,1914
A PRAYER FOR PEACE

NEARER the eagles swoop in darkening rings, Death scents his awful quarry from afar, While men in millions march to bloody war Hateless, unhated, at the word of Kings: But somewhere hid beneath His secret wings The sons of God, before a juster bar,

Plead in His name who bore the cross and scar For Love that sees clear-eyed what war-lust brings.

Plead on ye seers with love-enlightened eyes, Hold up your hands to where the angels gaze

With deep compassion on our human strife;

Prayer moves the world with power beyond amaze,

And they who look beyond this mortal life Know Peace on earth in Heaven hath great allies.

H. D. RAWNSLEY Westminster Gazette, August 4, 1914

THE SONG OF THE BRITONS

THE DEAD

DEEP beneath the fallen years, Slain by glittering foemen's spears, With empty hands and a brow uncrowned, To our native land our eyes we turn By snares encompassed round. Ah! God, as we gaze our steeled hearts yearn! About her head, like a wind that veers, The vultures of war whirl thick in the skies, Hate in their hearts, in their gleaming eyes Hate, and she stands, gentle of breath, Watching the venomous eyes of Death!

o would we could range there, row on row, Facing her foes at our sons' right hand, Sunder them, sift them like dust, and go Deathwards again for our motherland.

5
THE LIVING

Lord God of Hosts, within Thy keeping hold Our motherland ! With mercies manifold And gracious gifts divine point Thou the way Her feet shall follow to the judgment Day, Lord God of Hosts!

When for the great assize Thy trumpet sounds, 0 grant her strength to rise, Peerless from her omnipotent estate, With honour, power, and fame inviolate, Lord God of Hosts!

ANTHONY KIRBY GILL

Pall Mall Gazelle, August 5, 1914

THE VIGIL

ENGLAND: where the sacred flame

Burns before the inmost shrine, Where the lips that love thy name

Consecrate their hopes and thine, Where the banners of thy dead Weave their shadows overhead, Watch beside thine arms to-night, Pray that God defend the Right.

Think that when to-morrow comes

War shall claim command of all,

Thou must hear the roll of drums,

Thou must hear the trumpet's call.

Now before they silence ruth,

Commune with the voice of truth England! on thy knees to-night Pray that God defend the Right.

7
Single-hearted, unafraid,

Hither all thy heroes came, On this altar's steps were laid

Gordon's life and Outram's fame. England! if thy will he yet By their great example set, Here beside thine arms to-night Pray that God defend the Right.

So shalt thou when morning comes Rise to conquer or to fall, Joyful hear the rolling drums,

Joyful hear the trumpets call. Then let Memory tell thy heart "England! what thou wert thou art!" Gird thee with thine ancient might, Forth ! and God defend the Right!

HENRY NEWBOLT Times August 5, 1914

WAR

WE passed the days in the sun's eye, The clouds that poised on high

Ringed round about with luxury of light For our delight,

And her white oil of gladness the moon shed On the untrampled ocean bed;

No admonition there, nor fear Fell on the drowsy ear

Louder than thunder rolled along the breeze From surfiess seas.

* *  *

The sun is dark as sackcloth and the seven Seals open: see the fourth part of the earth Shaken with a mighty wind, untimely power Unto one sitting on a pale horse given To tame with blood and bitterness and dearth, And waste Peace from the world; and up in Heaven Was silence for the space of half an hour.

M JOURDAIN

Westminster Gazelle, August 6, 1914 9
HYMN AFTER BATTLE

[The Kaiser has been thanking God for his successes; and whilst the Christian nations of Europe are engaged in murdering each other, the heathen, whom they have failed to convert, remain so ignorant of the gospel that they are still living together in peace.]

I

LORD of this blood-drenched battle plain, Lord of the foe our hands have slainGlory to Thee amidst the dead, That Thou hast still Thy people led, And shattered thus, 0 Lord benign, This people that was also Thine!

Lord 01 our high, triumphant state, Lord of the hearths made desolateShall they not praise Thee, they that rue Beside those hearths the dead we slew? Yea, at Thine altar let them bow, God of their dead and them art Thou I

I0

Lord of the darkness and the sun, While we give thanks for victory won, Surely each blackening wound that gapes Here in these broken human shapes, Mouths but its praise of all Thy powers! Thou wert their God no less than ours.

II

Yet is it well that men to-day Recrown their fathers' god of clay? Yet is it well that from his sleep The savage in our blood should leap To flatter from this reeking sod The spirit of his primal god?

Nay, we were best be mute, and raise No blasphemy of boastful praise, Scatter no incense on the air, Nor lift our reddened hands in prayer, But dig the earth our steps defame, And hide these trophies of our shame.

Silence the braggart lips that call The brute that slumbers in us all
Back to the ravening triumph foul Of rending claws and bloody jowl-.Lest we forget the heights sublime, And lapse into our ancient slime.

A. ST. JOHN ADCOCK. Daily Herald August 6, 1914

BRITANNIA

MEN deemed her changed, and lo!

At word of war unveiled, She stands, as long ago,

She stood when Nelson sailed. The sea wind in her hair,

The salt upon her lips, Upon the Forelands fair

She guards the English ships.

She watched the Normans land,

The Golden Hind set sail, And, touched as by a hand,

The great Armada fail. She watched the Victory

Lead out the Fleet to war, And o'er the salt blue sea

Return from Trafalgar.

13
Men deemed her changed, and lo!

She stands unto the end,

With sword to strike the foe

And shield to guard a friend.

Across the wave she rules

That lesson shall be read

By foemen-and the fools

Who dream that Drake is dead.

H. DE VERE STACPOOLE Daily Express, Augusl 7, 1914

THE ANSWER

¥ . It would be a disgrace for us to make this bargain with

Germany at the expense of France, a disgrace from which the good name of this country would never recover."-SIR EDWARD GREY to SIR E. GOSCHEN.I

WHEN Honour on her silver bugle blows a point of war

Then Englishmen arise With battle in their eyes,

They can only give one answer, as their fathers answered, for

The choice that they are making Is fighting or forsaking,

And a false, fair-weather friendship is a lie that they abhor.

O'er the narrow seas the Gallic cock was crowing shrill alarms,

He saw them coming forth, The War Lords of the North, '5
He said-" My little soldiers, it is time to fall to arms; But our coasts are lying bare, Will England do her share?

A friendship that is fickle is the worst of Fortune's harms.

"Through Luxemburg and Belgium they are marching in their might, They trample on the weak, Our overthrow to seek;

They tear up every treaty, and they laugh at every right; Will England see her name Put thus to open shame?

Will she see her Royal pledges torn in pieces in her sight?"

But the Germans in their arrogance our Minister addressed, Half-wheedling, halfcommanding"Let us make an understanding,

Her coasts we will not batter nor her ports will we invest; If you will stand apart While we pierce her to the heart,

We will let you show your friendship by a bargain for the rest."

Then Sir Edward Grey replied, to the honour of his raceTo what England puts her hand, Upon that she takes her stand,

She will not barter treaties in your German market-place, Nor will she condescend To pledge away a friend,

Such contracting out of danger were for ever her disgrace."

So o'er the perilous seas to Death or Victory we go, Our sailors rushing forth, To give battle in the North;

There as it was aforetime our ships will meet the foe; And our brave soldiers tooThe Baltic, Waterloo

As then so now, twice armed are we since Honour backs the blow!

IAN COLVIN

MQrningPtsf, AuguI 8, 1914
