THE KAISER AND BELGIUM

HE said: "Thou petty people, let me pass!

What canst thou do but bow to me and kneel ?"

But sudden a dry land caught fire like grass,

And answer hurtled but from shell and steel.

He looked for silence, but a thunder came;

Upon him from Liege a leaden hail.

All Belgium flew up at his throat in flame,

Till at her gates amazed his legions quail

Take heed, for now on haunted ground thy tread;

There bowed a mightier War-Lord to his fall;

Fear! Lest that very grass again grow red

With blood of German now, as then of Gaul!

If him whom God destroys He maddens first,

Then thy destruction slake thy madman's thirst!

STEPHEN PHILLIPS

Daily Chronicle, August 8, 1914

CANADA TO ENGLAND

GREAT names of thy great captains gone before Beat with our blood, who have that blood of thee: Raleigh and Grenville, Wolfe, and all the free Fine souls who dared to front a world in war. Such only may outreach the envious years Where feebler crowns and fainter stars remove, Nurtured in one remembrance and one love Too high for passion and too stern for tears.

O little isle our fathers held for home, Not, not alone thy standards and thy hosts Lead where thy sons shall follow, Mother Land: Quick as the north wind, ardent as the foam, Behold, behold the invulnerable ghosts Of all past greatnesses about thee stand.

MARJORIE L. C. PICKTHALL

Times, August 10, 1914
TO "LITTLE" BELGIUM

I

"There was war in Heaven" (Rev. xii. 7)

SURELY 'twas hell, not heaven, where first was war, Where first infernal passions woke and stirredWar, which makes heaven impossible in a word,

And Murder bids her bloody gate unbar!

As well might one, under the juggernaut car, And knowing all annihilate shall be, Babble of life and immortality

As call that "heaven" where hell and hatred are.

Yet there was war in heaven, as on this star, Yea, even there was War's red flag unfurled, As if High God would warn a craven world

In heaven itself; worse can befall than war.

II

"Give peace in our time, 0 Lord!" (Prayer Book)

So runs the ancient prayer, and I who hold War to be bloody, damnable, abhorred,

Pray: "Not in our time, only, be it Lord, But for all time may peace this isle enfold!"

Yet rather than our England cease to be

What England is-Honour's own diadem;

Rather than fail one promised sword to them (Our word, God's arm, their surest guarantee),

That "little" but loyal race whom, near and far, A world acclaims for glorious, deathless deed,

Rather than fail GREAT Belgium in her need, Rather than this, in God's own name, be war!

COULSON KERNAHAN

Daily Chronicle, August Ia, 1914
THE TRIBUTE

NOT by the valour of Belgium, nor the lightning sabre of France,

Not by the thunder of Britain's Fleet, and the Bear's unchecked advance,

Not by these fears, Lord Kaiser, tho' they shatter a tyrant's lust,

Is your heart most darkly troubled, and your soul brought down to the dust,

But by the great affirming of the lands we have knit as one;

By the love, by the passionate loyal love, of each separate free-born son,

Canada cries "We are coming!" and Australasia" We come!"

And you scowl that no Boer is rising at the beat of your German drum.

And the Men of md bear witness-We have grumbled, but now no more;

We have shared your plentiful righteous Peace, we will share your righteous War,

22

Trust us to guard your Honour, one with yours is our breath;

You have dealt us an even justice, we are yours to the gates of Death.

Here in these storm-swept islands where we fought for the things of peace,

Where we quarrelled and strove in factions, at a stroke all factions cease,

And there in the vast dominions, more free than your Prussian lords,

The women are shouting for England and the men are drawing their swords.

Never was flag so world-loved as the flag we lift on high,

While your Prussian legions muster, while your Eagle screams in the sky;

And the God of Right give answer to your blood-andiron brag,

Whether your hand is worthy to wrest from our hand that flag.

HAROLD BEGBIE

Daily Chronicle, August ii, 1914
IN THE RED DAWN

OH, my England! thou hast heard

Could the hearing leave thee cold ?

Shattered vow and shameless word,

Bribe and menace and affront;

Think they that thou growest old

Since La Haie and Hougoumont?

Oh, my England! thou hast seen,

Not with dull or hopeless eyes,

How they wait, elate, serene,

For thine utter darkening;

How they hover o'er the prize,

Eagles red of claw and wing!

Thou hast heard-and they shall hear;

Thou hast seen-and they shall see;

With the sun upon thy spear,

And the moon upon thy helm,

Thou hast spoken, thou art free

Thou shalt strike and overwhelm. 24

Thou art ours, and we are thine, And the circling sea is ours; In the dark immortal wine We will pledge them, though we die. For flame still upon our towers

Flags of hope and victory.

DOROTHY MARGARET STUART

Evening Standard, August II, 1914
PRO PATRIA

ENGLAND, in this great fight to which you go

Because, where Honour calls you, go you must, Be glad, whatever comes, at least to know You have your quarrel just.

Peace was your care; before the nations' bar

Her cause you pleaded and her ends you sought; But not for her sake, being what you are, Could you be bribed and bought.

Others may spurn the pledge of land to land,

May with the brute sword stain a gallant past; But by the seal to which you set your hand, Thank God, you still stand fast!

Forth, then, to front that peril of the deep

With smiling lips and in your eyes the light, Steadfast and confident, of those who keep Their storied scutcheon bright.

26

And we, whose burden is to watch and wait

High-hearted ever, strong in faith and prayer, We ask what offering we may consecrate, What humble service share.

To steel our souls against the lust of ease

To find our welfare in the common good; To hold together, merging all degrees In one wide brotherhood;

To teach that he who saves himself is lost

To bear in silence though our hearts may bleed To spend ourselves and never count the cost, For others' greater need;

To go our quiet ways, subdued and sane;

To hush all vulgar clamour of the street; With level calm to face alike the strain Of triumph or defeat;

This be our part, for so we serve you best,

So best confirm their prowess and their pride, Your warrior sons, to whom in this high test Our fortunes we confide.

SIR OWEN SEAMAN

Punch, August 12, 1914
THE WAR CRY

GRIM the struggle we've to face!

Setting now our task about, As becomes our name and race,

Grimly we must fight it out.

Not elated, not depressed,

Equanimity our rule;

Through all happenings self-possessed,

Silent, strong, determined, cool.

Came the challenge from the foe;

Naught we did to court this fight;

But since they will have it so,

Let them have-what they invite.

For a Europe's flouted laws

We the sword reluctant drew,

Righteous in a righteous cause:

Britons, we must see it through.

28

Wooden walls once held these strands

Safe from every foe that came.

Times are changed; but now our land's

Iron walls shall do the same.

Times are changed-our sailors, nay!

What their sea-sires were they are.

Drake's and Nelson's heart to-day

Beats in every British tar.

While they range the Northern deep,

Lies our sea-girt isle secure;

Britain's honour's theirs to keep

Trust we them to keep it sure.

What though random mine shall deal

Here and there its dastard blow,

They'll avenge each shattered keel

Twice, thrice over, on the foe.

Came the challenge from the foe;

Naught we did to court this tight;

But since they will have it so,

Let them have-what they invite.
For a Europe's flouted laws

We the sword reluctant drew, Rzhteous in a r:hteous cause:

Britons, we WILL see it through /

R. M. FREEMAN

Truth, Augu/ 12, 1914

FRANCE

BECAUSE for once the sword broke in her hand,

The words she spoke seemed perished for a space:

All wrong was brazen, and in every land

The tyrants walked abroad with naked face.

The waters turned to blood, as rose the Star

Of evil fate denying all release.

The rulers smote the feeble crying "War ! "

The usurers robbed the naked crying "Peace!"

And her own feet were caught in nets of gold,

And her own soul profaned by sects that squirm,

And little men climbed her high seats and sold

Her honour to the vulture and the worm.

And she seemed broken and they thought her dead,

The Over-Men, so brave against the weak.

Has your last word of sophistry been said,

o cult of slaves? Then it is hers to speak

3'
Clear the slow mists from her half-darkened eyes, As slow mists parted over Valmy fell,

And once again her hands in high surprise Take hold upon the battlements of Hell.

CECIL CHESTERTON

New Witness, August 13, 1914

TO FRANCE

THOSE who have stood for thy cause when the dark was around thee,

Those who have pierced through the shadows and shining have found thee,

Those who have held to their faith in thy courage and power,

Thy spirit, thy honour, thy strength for a terrible hour,

Now can rejoice that they see thee in light and in glory,

Facing whatever may come as an end to the story

In calm undespairing, with steady eyes fixed on the morrow

The morn that is pregnant with blood and with death and with sorrow.

And whether the victory crowns thee, 0 France the eternal,

Or whether the smoke and the dusk of a nightfall infernal

Gather about thee, and us, and the foe; and all treasures

Run with the flooding of war into bottomless measures

33 C
Fall what befalls: in this hour all those who are near thee

And all who have loved thee, they rise and salute and revere thee!

HERBERT JONES

Westminster Gazelle, August 13, 1914

THE HUSH

THERE is a hush before the thunder-jar, When white the steeples against purple stand There is a hush when night with star on star Goes ashen on the summer like a brand. Now a more awful pause appals the soul, When concentrating armies crouch to spring Stillness more fraught than any thunder-roll, Dawn European with a redder wing. The Teuton host no conscience onward drives; Sullen they come ; to slaughter shepherded; Timed for the shambles with unwilling lives, With doubt each soldier is already dead. The massed battalions as a myth shall reel Vainly they fight, if first they cannot feel.

STEPHEN PHILLIPS Times, August 13, 1914
ALLITERATIVISM

(THE LATEST SCHOOL)

[French airmen have been flying over Baden and Bavaria, violating Belgian neutrality.-Stated, on German authority, in

Westminster Gazette."]

SEE the flying French depart Like the bees of Bonaparte, Swarming up with a most venomous vitality. Over Baden and Bavaria, And Brighton and Bulgaria, Thus violating Belgian neutrality.

And the injured Prussian may Not unreasonably say "Why, it cannot be so small a nationality! Since Brixton and Batavia, Bolivia and Belgravia, Are bursting with the Belgian neutrality."

Beluchistan and Bonn, Braemar and Babylon 36

All feel the French offence against legality, And Boston and Bilbao And Bucks and Bulawayo Will perish for their Belgian neutrality.

By pure Alliteration You may trace this curious nation, And respect this somewhat scattered principality; When you see a B in Both You may take your Bible oath You are violating Belgian neutrality.

G. K. CHESTERTON New Witness, August 13, 1914
TO THE AGGRESSOR

NOT ours the stroke, for we maintain The Truth by which the just abide, That murder is the lust of Hell. If Europe must be crucified, Not ours the guilt! Let it be known. Aye! by the blood upon thy throne!

Not ours this war, and all its waste, Nor do we take the sword in vainThe Holy Sword our fathers bore To brand it with the mark of Cain. "Thou art the Man !" For thee 'twas planned. Aye! by the Bible in thy hand!

REGINALD R. BUCKLEY T. P.'s Weekly, August 13, 1914

EVENING PRAYER OF A PEOPLE

SUNDAY, AUGUST 9, 1914

LORD, from this storm-awakened isle,

At this dark hour on land and sea, 'Twixt bugle-call and Sabbath bell

Go up our prayers to Thee.

For the long years of sanctuary

We tender thanks, 0 Lord!

For peaceful fields and sacred hearths,

And the unused sword.

Thine be the praise! And now when quakes

The world, and trials come, O God! preserve inviolate

Our ancient island Home!

0! had we died untried, unproved,

And missed this hour of stress 1Praise be to God for this last gift, The joy of steadfastness! 39
Where'er our people be to-night, Our husbands or our sons,

Tossed on the thunder-bolted deep, Or bivouacked by the guns;

Treading the mire of foreign lands,

Or guarding our native coasts, Be Thou their Shield and Comforter, We pray Thee, God of Hosts!

NEIL MUNRO Giasow Evening News Augustg, 1914

THE MAN FORSWORN

WHo draws to-day the unrighteous sword?

Behold him stand, the Man Forsworn, The warrior of the faithless word,

The pledge disowned, the covenant torn, Who prates of honour, truth, and trust, Ere he profanes them in the dust.

When to yon fabric grey in fame,

That Windsor lifts against the sky, In martial cloak the Kaiser came,

We did not dream it cloaked a spy; Yet there he sat, as now we know, A guest, a kinsman, and a foe.

France was a gallant foe and fair,

That looked us proudly in the face, With her frank eyes and freeborn air,

And valour half-concealed in grace. Noblest of all with whom we serove, At last she gives us noble love.

41
But he that took our proffered hand,

Thinking to take our birthright too, He, in this hospitable land,

Bore him as only dastards do. Here, where the Earth still nurtures men, His hand shall soil not ours again.

We know his people great and strong;

On such as these we cast no slur; Our wonder is that they so long

Suffer ungalled his bit and spur. 'Tis with no heart of joy that we Arise to smite them on the sea.

Glory we count of lesser worth

Than wife and babe and hearth and home; Theirs is the mandate speeding forth

Our steps of thunder on the foam; For them we fight, for them we stand, Yea, and for faith 'twixt land and land.

You that have linked your might with ours, To break his pride who breaks the laws, You wear today, 'mid perjured Powers, The armour of a spotless cause;

Your legions march in Truth arrayed, And knightly Honour whets your blade.

From Baltic or Biscayan shores

Where Loire to the Atlantic runs; Where Volga to the Caspian pours,

You have not poured in vain your sons. From laughing lands of Rhone and Seine You have not poured your sons in vain.

Let us a League of Man proclaim

Against such knavery 'neath a crown As would be rightly held to shame

A swineherd and his fellow clown. Shall all the false and creeping things Find a last refuge among Kings?

At least on this unageing throne,

That baffles the long siege of 'rime, We have a monarch of our own

To whom a crime is still a crime And pure in aim there sits afar The patient, silent, stormworn Czar.
For one sole mortal it remained,

One rash insulter of the Earth,

To teach the world wherein he reigned

How much a Kaiser's word is worth.

A Kaiser's word, a Caitiff's vow

Well have we learned their value now.

Over the bland and kindly Day,

Unseasonable Night he flings;

Sinister darkness blear and grey,

A horror of malignant wings.

Pain and red havoc he bestows

On them that only asked repose.

He is not hungrier for your lands

Than he is thirsty for your seas.

Smite him with all your thunderous hands,

Fight him and smite him to his knees

You that on him and falsehood hurled

Shall guard the fortress of the world.

WILLIAM WATSON Daily Chronicle, Au,çusi '4, 1914

TO THE KING OF THE BELGIANS

MULTITUDES upon multitudes they throng And thicken: who shall number their array? They bid the peoples tremble and obey: Their faces are set forward, all for wrong. They trample on the covenant and are strong And terrible. Who shall dare to say them nay? How shall a little nation bar the way Where that resistless host is borne along?

You never thought, 0! gallant King, to bow To overmastering force and stand aside. Safe and secure you might have reigned. But now Your Belgium is transfigured, glorified, The friend of France and England, who avow An Equal here, and thank the men who died.

H. M.

Times, August 14, 1914
THE VINDICATION

[It is announced that all the Territorial battalions are already at full strength, and that Lord Kitchener's "second army" is now in course of formation.]

THE Summer wanes: and, 'Erbert, in the haunts

That have been hallowed by your yearly favour The "fag" that you affect no longer flaunts

Its unattractive savour.

Your bare but lustrous poll, your lurid ties,

The wond'rous garb you choose for your adorning At Margate gladden no expectant eyes;

And Southend is in mourning.

The rail you used, in your adjacent park,

Whereon to perch, that girls might glance in gladness, Stands tenantless (and they, I may remark,

Show little trace of sadness). 46

your expert views of 'Ayward, 'Obbs, and 'Itch

Disturb no more the matutinal travel

And "form "-You scarcely know which horse is which

No longer you unravel.

You have been, more or less, an ornament,

Too precious for the strenuous endeavour

of those on getting goals, or wickets, bent;

And not unduly clever.

We held you as a nuisance at your worst,

And at your best a useless sort of blighter,

Never imagining that you might burst,

Some day, into a fighter.

We've heard you call on God to save the King,

And shout the "Marseillaise "-somewhat shyly

But, still, your martial ardour was a thing

We did not value highly.

Yet, in the altered circumstances, 'Erb,

We feel that in our world there's something lacking

The place has grown more sombre, less superb, Since you have started packing
