We held your thews and sinews rather cheap, Knowing you'd never been inclined to use them And might, had not emotion run so deep,

Have ventured to refuse them:

But-here's where our apology comes in

The hour of need was all we lacked to try you! So, 'Erb, my hero, march along and win:

The God of Wars stand by you!

PHILIP BUSSY

U/emins/er Gazelle, Augusl 14, 1914

THE SPIRIT OF ENGLAND

My sea-winds I gather, my fields I fill With life-giving roots and grain. My sons I unite for my greatest fight My dream and desire to gain.

My land I have clothed in its fairest garb, Corn-yellow and green and blue. I arise in my pride, once more to decide In the conflict of false and true.

I summon to battle from plain and hill, From woodland and fen and dale, From my reeking towns and greyhound downs My men to be cast in the scale.

My flesh still quivers. The poisoned barb By treacherous foe is flung. I have plucked it out; my children shout Of the vengeance to be wrung.

49 D
But I seek no vengeance, nor demand An eye for an eye, nor tooth For tooth. I desire to raise from the mire My vision of peace and truth.

I have cleansed the seas, and have opened them To traffic of many ships: I would purge the land with the same firm hand To let peace know no eclipse.

My dreams are challenged. I make my stand. My vision shall still prevail. From my white tower I send my power Arrayed in its proven mail.

No glory I covet, nor diadem, Save honour and peace of soul, But to see far-flung as my singers have sung My Freedom from pole to pole.

GILBERT CANNAN

Saturday Review, August 15, 1914

THE NAVAL RESERVE

FROM the undiscovered deep

Where the blessed lie at easeSince the ancient navies keep

Empire of the heavenly seas

Back they come, the mighty dead,

Quick to serve where they have led.

Rushing on the homeward gale,

Swift they come, to seek their place Where the grey flotillas sail,

Where the children of their race

Now against the foe maintain

All they gave their lives to gain.

Rank on rank, the admirals Rally to their old commands; Where the crash of battle falls, There the one-armed hero stands. Loud upon his phantom mast Speak the signals of the past. 51
Where upon the friendly wave Stand our squadrons as of old, Where the lonely deed and brave Shall the ancient torch upholdStrive for England, side by side,

Those who live and those who died.

EVELYN UNDERHILL New Weekly, August 15, 1914

ICONOCLASTES

LIVED in days of old a nation Stark and sturdy, valiant-hearted, Rich in honest, kindly manhood,

Rich in tender womanhood;

Rich in deft and cunning craftsmen, Singers mighty and melodious, Thinkers of sublimest stature

Masters of the undaunted mind;

Rich-yea, richest-in titanic Wondrous harmony-compellers, Weaving descants worldenthralling,

Echoes of the voice of God.

But, alas! and in an evil Day for them, this glorious people Went a-wandering after idols, Went a-worshipping false gods. 53
One grim Idol in especial, One colossal Moloch-image, Moulded of blood-tempered iron,

They erected in their midst.

Dark and sinister its aspect, Rigid, menacing, inhuman, From its swooping helmet-eagle To its trailing sabre-tip.

Shaggy brows o'erhung and shaded Eyes of cynical clairvoyance Into all the baser instincts

Of the shivering, thrall-bound soul:

Stone-blind to the far horizons Of the aspiring human spirit: Stone-blind to the dawning promise

Of a wiser, happier age.

Rose the bullet-head defiant From aggressive, padded shoulders; On the breast a steely corsiet

Bastioned a stony heart.

Planted firm on mighty jack-boots Stood the rugged, rough-hewn imageSeven-league jackboots, swift to trample

Homes, and hearts, and plighted faith.

Once this god-so ran the legendLed his chosen folk to triumphTriumph, dear-bought, triumph tragic,

Yet resplendent in its day.

Whereupon the people, dazzled By his blood-red blaze of glory, Saw in him a Teuton Saviour,

Crucifying, not crucified:

Made of him an ogre-fetish, A cast-iron Mumbo-Jumbo, Worshipped in a tortuous ritual

Known as Real-Politik.

Hierarchies of priests before him Moved through ponderous Kriegs-ManOver, Headed by the Archimandrite

Of the far-famed Mailed Fist.
O'er the land his spirit brooded Renonznjjere2, Sc/iwadronieren Were accounted saving graces,

And heel-clicking Schneidigkeit.

Year by year, in huge battalions, Were the young men of the nation At his altar consecrated

To a soulless slavery;

While on the o'erburdened ocean Steel-clad monsters hurtled, thundering, Through unhallowed demon-dances,

To propitiate his ghost.

Nor on his own people only Weighed his worship like a nightmareAll the nations needs must pay him

Tribute of their youth and strength.

Every nation at his altar Needs must bow in sullen thraldom, Pouring tithes of all their treasure

Into his insatiate maw.

Vainly did they murmur, craving Some remission of their tribute Still the Archimandrite answered,

"Real-Politik forbids!"

Till at last, in fierce rebellion Rose his victims, over-driven, Rose against the Archimandrite And his sckneidig hierarchy,

Saying, "Let us smash the Idol, Pulverize the Moloch-image, Exorcize the accursed vampire

From its menace free the world:

"Free ourselves, and free the noble, Richly dowered, gemutlick nation Doomed by some malign enchantment

To this dire idolatry:

"Free the workers, thinkers, singers, To their saner selves restore them, Save their souls, reclaim their genius

For the service of mankind."

* * *
Can we crush the Idol? Never Doubt it! for a mightier godhead, Ancient, awful, fights on our side, And its name is NEMESIS.

WILLIAM ARCHER

Daily News, August 15, 1914

THE CALL TO ARMS IN OUR STREET

THERE'S a woman sobs her heart out, With her head against the door, For the man that's called to leave her, -God have pity on the poor! But it's beat, drums, beat, While the lads march down the street, And it's blow, trumpets, blow, Keep your tears until they go

There's a crowd of little children That march along and shout, For it's fine to play at soldiers Now their fathers are called out. So it's beat, drums, beat; But who'll find them food to eat? And it's blow, trumpets, blow, Ah! the children little know.

59
There's a mother who stands watching For the last look of her son, A worn poor widow woman, And he her only one. But it's beat, drums, beat, Though God knows when we shall meet; And it's blow, trumpets, blow, We must smile and cheer them so.

There's a young girl who stands laughing, For she thinks a war is grand, And it's fine to see the lads pass, And it's fine to hear the band. So it's beat, drums, beat, To the fall of many feet; And it's blow, trumpets, blow, God go with you where you go To the war.

W. M. LETTS

SaEurday J eErn ins/er, A u'us/ 15, 1914

TO THE CREW OF H.M.S. BIRMIIVGHIIM

You that have been first in war

To meet that menace of the sea,

The sunken craft that ne'er before

Hath tried death's instrument to be,

You have won honour and success

By daring and by skilfulness.

Daring is yours by pure descent

From heroes of an earlier age,

Who blood and treasure freely spent

To make the sea our heritage,

Who faced the cannon and the steel,

And lived and died for England's weal.

And skill is yours, with patience won

And labour neither brief nor light

No novice aimed the blinding gun

That reft the submarine of sight

6i
Honoured of England let him be As Robin Hood of gunnery.

Yours then is England's love and praise,

o cruiser of the honoured name! For whatsoever future days

May bring of peril or of fame, In your first battle on the sea You win your immortality.

R. H. FORSTER

Yorkshire Post, August iS, 1914

GERMANIA

SURGEON her, world! Let myriad scalpels bright Flash in her sores with all thy bitter might,

So that their aching cease. Cut clean the cursed canker that doth foul Her spirit; tent and cleanse her sorry soul,

And give her bosom peace.

We do not smite a nation, but a pest; Humanity makes reasonable quest

To free a noble slave. Full deep she groans and faints, and fainting feels Archaic torture of a tyrant's heels

Grinding her to her grave.

Possessed of devils now, mad with her woes, She wounds the world and turns her friends to foes;

But cast her devils down And broken, humbled, contrite, healed and sane Oh may she shine her glorious self againPearl in Europa's crown. 63
And they accurs'd, who bred this in her heart, Shall from the councils of mankind depart, While over sea and shore, The silver trumpets of the sunrise cry That earth pursue her solemn destiny By blood and iron no more.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS

Daily Chronicle, August 17, 1914

THE CALL

LAD, with the merry smile and the eyes

Quick as a hawk's and clear as the day,

You, who have counted the game the prize,

Here is the game of games to play.

Never a goal-the captains say

Matches the one that's needed now:

Put the old blazer and cap away

England's colours await your brow.

Man, with the square-set jaws and chin,

Always, it seems, you have moved to your end

Sure of yourself, intent to win

Fame and wealth and the power to bend

All that you've made you're called to spend,

All that you've sought you're asked to miss

What's ambition compared with this

That a man lay down his life for his friend?

65
Dreamer, oft in your glancing mind

Brave with drinking the faerie brew,

You have smitten the ogres blind

When the fair Princess cried out to you.

Dreamer, what if your dreams are true?

Yonder's a bayonet, magical, since

Him whom it strikes, the blade sinks through

Take it and strike for England, Prince!

Friend with the face so hard and worn,

The Devil and you have sometime met,

And now you curse the day you were born,

And want one boon of God-to forget.

Ah, but I know, and yet-and yet

I think, out there in the shrapnel spray,

You shall stand up and not regret

The Life that gave so splendid a day.

Lover of ease, you've lolled and forgot

All the things that you meant to right;

Life has been soft for you, has it not?

What offer does England make to-night?

This-to toil and to march and to fight

As never you've dreamed since your life began;

This-to carry the steel-swept height,

This-to know that you've played the man!

Brothers, brothers, the time is short,

Nor soon again shall it so betide

That a man may pass from the common sort

Sudden and stand by the heroes' side.

Are there some that being named yet bide ?

Hark once more to the clarion call

Sounded by him who deathless died

"This day England expects you all."

R. E. VERNEDE Times, August 19, 1914
