INTERCHANGE

IN THIS ISSUE

We have come to the end of 1978 an eventful year in the South in many respects. In this our third issue of Southern Changes, we, too - as is often the custom this time of year pause to reflect upon and assess some of these events.

Ore of the more recent events that we report on this issue is the general elections held November 7. In our very insightful "Soapbox" commentary, which sets the tone for our issue, one of the things that Leslie Dunbar speaks about is the burden the South has had of bearing its own history and the burden it has been to the rest of the nation. Its senators and representatives, he points out, were almost never found at the forefront of good works. And for many years because of the seniority system, Southerners dominated the Congress.

A combination of death, retirements and reform, as Tom Fiedler reveals in his noteworthy article in this issue has virtually ended the Southern domination of Congress. With the end of the 95th Congress, the South will lose 216 years of seniority in the House and 92 years in the Senate.

This startling turn of events made this election particularly worthy of note. The South was offered an opportunity to replace these "Old South" congressmen with younger, more progressive "New South" congresspersons. Our elections' review looks at the extent to which the South took up the opportunity.

The struggle between the "Old South" and the "New South" also continues in areas outside of politics. In fact, 1978 was the year that saw a resurgence of the kind of racial confrontations and bitter feelings that many thought were laid to rest forever following the movement of the turbulent sixties. In this issue, we carry the tales of three Southern towns in which this dichotomy is played out all too poignantly.

 The first is the saga of Tommy Lee Hines, a 26-year-old mentally retarded

Black man convicted in Culiman, Alabama of raping a White woman. In this pathetic tale of "Old South" justice, Bob Dart relates the train of events that culminate in the conviction of Tommy Hines and capsules the issues that he, unfortunately, gets chiseled in between.

In the second article, Tupelo, a northeast Mississippi trading center, the scene of seven months of racial turmoil ignited by a Black boycott of White-owned stores, is observed by this editor who grew up there. The hometown girl determines that her town is characteristic of many others where in 1978 their reality fails to live up to their promise.

In both Cuilman and Tupelo, the "Old South" Ku Klux Klan reared its hooded head and rallied forth in force and numbers unknown in recent times. Their presence served to dramatize the clashes in the South between the old and the new.

Yet, there are more subtle forms of the "Old South" ideology. Thomas Noland recounts how Ashland, the hometown of Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black, refuses to honor its most

famous son because most of its citizens still begrudge the Alabamian for his opinions on the Court. While Black's mark on the development of law lives on, Ashland town officials prefer to boast about having "the highest altitude of any county seat in the state."

Our regular departments this month carry reports on Georgia's Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), the plight of Atlanta's Black Southwest Community Hospital and a most unusual career conference.

As 1978 winds down and we look about the South, amid good reasons for despair, let us remember in the New Year Leslie Dunbar's words from his commentary 'The South's identity, all that it has to offer, is a history, and a spirit dragged and wrenched from it. A spirit that, at its deepest, knows that life - mere life - is worth all, because it can come back another day and is, anyway, in the final judgment all we have; and knows that each of us has claims on each other that may be denied for long, but not forever."

Betty Norwood Chaney Editor

keeping you posted ...

... has been designated for community groups and organizations of goodwill to use for announcements of upcoming meetings and events. Copy must be received two months in advance of publication.

The Institute, a national center for training and research in community organizing, will conduct a two-day workshop, Organizing Perspectives for Lawyers, in New Orleans, December 45,1978. Contact Meg Campbell, 628 Baronne Street, New Orleans, LA 70113, (504) 5245034.

The National Conference on State Government will be meeting December 6-8, 1978, in New Orleans. Contact the Public Affairs Council at (202) 872-1790.

A three-day seminar sponsored by New York University's School of Continuing Education will be held in Atlanta, December 11-13, 1978 entitled Interpersonal Skills for Women Supervisors and Managers. Call (212) 953-7262 for additional information.

The ACLU of Florida will be holding their Annual Bill of Rights Day Dinner, December 14, 1978 at the Doral Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida. Contact Kathi Miller (305) 666-4750 for ticket information.

The Grantsmanship Center is holding a Grantsmanship Training Seminar in Atlanta, January 812, 1979. Contact Gordon Kenna, SRC, (404) 522-8764 for more information.
