GOOD FRIDAY, A.D. 33

[OTHER, why are people crowding now and staring?

Child, it is a malefactor goes to His doom, the high hill of Calvary He's faring,

And the people pressing and pushing to make room Lest they miss the sight to come.

iii, the poor malefactor, heavy is His load!

Now He falls beneath it and they goad Him on.

re the road to Calvary's a steep up-hill roadIs there none to help Him with His Cross-not one? Must He bear it all alone

re is a country boy with business in the city,

Smelling of the cattle's breath and the sweet hay; they bid him lift the Cross, so they have some pity: !d, they fear the malefactor dies on the way And robs them of their play.
Has He no friends then, no father nor mother,

None to wipe the sweat away nor pity His fate

There's a woman weeping and there's none to soothe her

Child, it is well the seducer expiate His crimes that are so great.

Mother, did I dream He once bent above me,

This poor seducer with the thorn-crowned head,

His hands on my hair and His eyes seemed to love me

Suffer little children to come to Me, He saidHis hair, his brows drip red.

Hurrying through Jerusalem on business or pleasure

People hardly pause to see Him go to His death

Whom they held five days ago more than a King's treksure,

Shouting Hosannas, flinging many a wreath For this Jesus of Nazareth.

DISTRACTION

WHEN swarms of small distractions harry

Devotion like the gnats that fly

Till prayers are cold and customary,

Not such as please Thee, Heaven-high.

When I forget for all my striving

Thy presence holy and august,

Be Thou not angry, but forgiving

To her Thou madest from the dust.

Say to Thyself: This mortal being,

So deaf, so blind, so prone to sin,

Has glimpses of Me without seeing

The places where the nails went in.

Say: Through the crusts of earth, My creature

Perceives Me, hails Me Lord above; ours of the lost innocence reach her, assurance of My love.
Say: Of all marvels I have fashioned Is none more wonderful and new As that this thing should go impassioned

For heights beyond her mortal view.

What though her mind should play and ponder On small things meet for such as she

0 love! 0 loyalty! 0 wonder!

That in the darkness gropes for Me.

THE DESERTED

Tuou Who wert kindest of the kindSince out of sight is out of mindThere's none to do Thee kindnesses In Thy last anguish and distress. Thou art left all alone, alone. Where are Thy faithful lovers flown

Where is the multitude that fed, With loaves and fishes comforted The blind Thou mad'st to see ? the lame That walked ? the one leper who came Of nine made clean ? The dumb that spoke Where are they-all Thy loving folk

How is it they have naught to say Where's Lazarus risen from the clay Where is the widow of Nain ? where J airus's daughter, small and fair? Judas has sold Thee to Thy foes,

T)ter weeps while the cock crows.
Simon will help Thee on Thy road Unwillingly-ah, Lamb of God! Thou bearest the world's weight up that hill, And none to help Thee with good will; Stumbling and falling, while Thy hurt Makes for the rabble noble sport.

But yet there's balm in Gilead, For here's His Mother, sweet and sad, Here's Magdalen weeping, and with them The women of Jerusalem; They have run all the: way since one Brought them the news : He's not alone

Veronica is nothing loth To wipe His poor face with her cloth. His Mother's by Him and St. John, With many a starry legion; Magdalen's hair is round His feet, Her tears wash off the blood and sweat.

Thou Who wert kindest of the kind,

Though out of sig' - of mind

Thou art not forgot: by land and sea The broken hearts come home to Thee, And bear Thine anguish and Thy grief Till the Third Day shall bring relief.
LENTEN COMMUNION

REST in a friend's house, Dear, I pray: The way is long to Good Friday, And very chill and grey the way.

No crocus with its shining cup, Nor the gold daffodil is up,Nothing is here save the snowdrop.

Sit down with me and taste good cheer: Too soon, too soon, Thy Passion's here The wind is keen and the skies drear.

Sit by my fire and break my bread. Yea, from Thy dish may I be fed, And under Thy feet my hair spread!

Lord, in the quiet, chill and sweet, Let me pour water for Thy feet, While the crowd es by in the Street.

Why wouldst Thou dream of spear or sword, Or of the ingrate rabble, Lord There is no sound save the song of a bird.

Let us sit down and talk at ease About Thy Father's business. (What shouts were those borne on the breeze )

Nay, Lord, it cannot be for Thee They raise the tallest cross of the three On yon dark Mount of Calvary!

So soon, so soon, the hour's flown The glory's dying: Thou art gone Out on Thy lonely way, alone.
THE TEST

LOVE has moods: and I am cold,

Very cold ofttimes to Thee;

Fain to slip from Thy dear hold

To my follies and be free.

Yet I love: Thou knowest all.

I am Thine in heat and chill;

Thou, Thou hast my heart in thrall,

All my life and all my will.

Thou, Immortal Lover, sure

Knowest the way that lovers have,

Now so cold, afraid, unsure,

Now afire with love and brave.

If I loved less it might be

That the way was smoother, less

Of the heavenly joys for me

And the cast-down bitterness.

I am cold-be that Love's proof And I burn-the proof again !

I would not be smooth but rough

Lest the smoother love should wane.

Give me earth or Heaven-and yet If it is Love's test to swing 'Twixt the earth and Heaven still set

1-1 ask no other thing.
NOEL

I HEARD a song upon Christmas day And the feet of many going one way, The word the golden voice did say: Gloria in Excelsis!

The air was filled with snowflakes white, And the singing stars danced in their flight, Sweet the song they sang in the night, Et in terra pax /

Good singing folk, where is there peace, And for the broken heart heartsease They chant: Come hither upon your knees, Yenite ad Bethlehem!

For now the Prince of Peace is born; For the full heart and the heart forlorn He signs His Peace upon Christmas Morn: Adeste Fidelis!

P',"?1 hazel?, I aton Izv, Ld London and Aylesbury.
