THE CHILDREN'S WAR

THIS is the Children's War, because

The victory's to the young and clean.

Up to the Dragon's ravening jaws

Run dear Eighteen and Seventeen.

Fresh from the Chrisom waters pure,

Dear boys, so eager to attain

To the bright visions that allure,

The fierce ordeal, the red pain.

The light is yet upon their curls

The dream is still within their eyes;

Their cheeks are silken as a girl's,

The little Knights of Paradise.

o men with many scars and stains,

Stand back, abase your souls and pray!

For now to Nineteen are the gains

And golden Twenty wins the day.
Brown heads with curls all rippled over, Young bodies slender as a flame,

They leap to darkness like a lover;

To Twenty-One is fall'n the game.

It is the Boys' War. Praise be given To Percivale and Galahad

Who have won earth and taken Heaven.

By violence! Weep not, but be glad.
AFTER JUTLAND

THE City of God is late become a seaport town For the clean and bronzed sailors walking up and down And the bearded Commanders, the Captains so brave, Bringing there the taste of the sea from the salt sea wave.

There are boys in the City's streets make holiday And all around are playing-fields and the boys at play; They dive in clear waters, climb many a high tree, They look out as they used to do for a ship at sea.

The sailor keeps a clean soul on the seas untrod; There is room in the great spaces for the Vision of God Walking on the waters, bidding him not fear; He has the very cleanest eyes so brave, so clear.

There's salt wind in Heaven and the salt sea-spray, And the little midshipmen boys are shouting at their play; There's a soft sound of waters lapping on the shore, The sailor he is home from sea to go back no more.
THE MOTHER

HER boys are not shut out. They come

Homing like pigeons to her door, Sure of her tender welcome home,

As many a time before.

Their bed is made so smooth and sweet,

The fire is lit, the table spread She has poured water for their feet,

That they be comforted.

As with a fluttering of wings

They are come home, come home to stay;

With all the bitter dreadful things

Forgot, clean washed away.

They are so glad to stay, so glad

They nestle to her gown's soft flow, As in the loving times they had,

Long ago, long ago.
Oh, not like lonely ghosts in mist Her boys come from the night and rain, But to be clasped, but to be kissed,

And not go out again.
AT PARTING

IT was sad weather when you went away, Wind, and the rain was raining every day: And all night long I heard in lonesome sleep The water running under the bows of the ship,

All the dark night and till the dawning grey.

At Salonika it is golden weather.

Go light of heart, 0 child, light as a feather, Valiant and full of laughter, free as air. God is at Salonika-here and there

God and my heart are keeping watch together.

But 0 when you come back, though skies should weep,

The water running under the bows of the ship Shall in my dreams make music exquisite And all my happy sleep be drenched with it;

And you coming home, home through the hours of sleep.
THE TEARS

AMID the Alleluias Small bliss of Heaven he had, alas! Because her tears ran down like rain And turned his blessing into bane.

Oh, who is it doth weep and weep, When I would run, when I would leap, With all my blithe companions Whose rain of tears puts out the suns

The others go in gold, in white, In the green bowers they have delight; They take their pleasure and their play After the bitter yesterday.

They have new garments of the silk, Red as a rose and white as milk; But ever on my own there lies A rain of tears puts out the skies.
o mother, mother, do not weep Fain would I run, fain would I leap; And of my youth would have great bliss, But that your tears give little ease.

o mother, mother, do not mourn! Because your small tears and forlorn Put out Heaven's candles, trickling through, And chill me as with bitter dew.

Amid the Alleluias Small joy of Heaven he had, alas! From all the bliss of Heaven apart, Because her tears fell on his heart.
THE NURSE

A YEAR before the war God sent

And took her from her tender task, Now that we know His kind intent

Nor why, nor wherefore, do we ask.

He saw the dreadful, glorious war,

And in what scourged and bitter strait The young souls thronging from afar

Should fall and faint at Heaven's gate.

Red wounds for to be staunched and healed

And broken things to be made new; The crushed sheaves of the battlefield,

Drenched with a dark and bitter dew.

Such weariness to put to bed,

Such heaviness to be made glad, Such younglings to be comforted

Before their mothers can
Soft hands to make rough pillows smooth, A passionate kindness for all pain Were hers-God called her home in ruth

And pity for His broken men.

She plies her lovely business,

Goes hither and thither like a light.

To yours, to mine, she may give ease;

A King's nurse now goes clad in white.
ALL SOULS

THE door of Heaven is on the latch

To-night, and many a one is fain To go home for one night's watch

With his Love again.

Oh, where the father and mother sit

There's drift of dead leaves at the door Like pitter-patter of little feet

That come no more.

Their thoughts are in the night and cold,

Their tears are heavier than the clay, But who is this at the threshold

So young and gay?

They are come from the land o' the young,

They have forgotten how to weep; Words of comfort on the tongue,

And a kiss to keep.
They sit down and they stay a while, Kisses and comfort none shall lack At morn they steal forth with a smile And a long look back.
COLONISTS

WHAT new star now in the sky Needs a starry colony That our men flock forth in troops, All our joys, our loves, our hopes

Wise and brave and kind they go Through the lonesome gate and low; All our starry colonists Through the -ains and through the mists,

To what glories may they fare, To what floods of ambient air, To what rivers, to what trees, To what dreaming palaces

Just beyond the gate may be Leagues on leagues of crystal sea, And high galleons, poop on poop, Where they shall go cliiiibiiig up.
Twisted cordage of spun gold, Sails of silk in fold on fold. Like a flock of heavenly birds Sails the squadron Paradise-wards.

Spiced winds have ta'en the sails. Singing like the nightingales The young souls go glad and gay, All their faces turned one way.

Now the Great Adventure calls, And they steal, with hushed footfalls, For there's work awaits them yonder In a starry world of wonder.

Young and fond and fair and brave,

What new planet now may crave

All these starry colonists From the rains and from the mists ?
THE WELCOME

WE will not banish them as they were lost, But in our daily talk their names be most,

Nor from our laughter be they shut away.

We shall tell over fond old stories of them

When they were little and we leant above them

Guarding from danger as God's angels may.

They come no more as they were used to come, Yet in the quiet dawning and the gloam Whose eyes are in the shadow and whose smile

Wavers and vanishes ? Oh, is it you,

Child, are you come, with darkness and the dew,

To sit down and give comfort for a while ?
To sit down as of old and lay your face On a poor heart you have left comfortless, To draw fond arms about your golden head,

So glad because you are not put away Out of familiar things of every day, Like a sad ghost dreaming that he is dead.
THE MESSAGE

DEAR angel friend, speak to his angel for her;

Tell him a mother prays his angel keep

Her little son in the battle and the horror

When all her prayers are laid away in sleep.

All day her prayers flow like a running river

Under the eyes of Him, mighty and kind.

His angel's prayers shall be as a sweet savour

Lest that her bitter need be out of mind.

Go tell his angel, where Death flies and hovers

Her son, her little son, is under the swords.

Blue are his eyes as pools the June sky covers,

Brown his young head, as brown as any bird's.

Tell him the boy is young and tall for token;

Pluck thou his angel that he speed, alert;

Lest that her trust of eighteen years be broken,

Lest that her precious young son should be hurt.
Tell him he fights amid the gloomy mountains

So slight, so brave, against the terrible Kings.

Say that he thirsts and harsh earth has no fountains,

Say that he falls-oh, pluck his angel's wings!

Shout to his angel if he should be roaming

That her one little son's lost if he fail.

Bid him be quick and splendid at his coming,

Dreadful with beauty so that he prevail.
FOR AN AIRMAN

HAVING found wings, he tossed, light as a feather,

Airy as thistledown, 'twixt earth and sky.

Oh, but the dark earth held his soul in tether!

Could he come back who knew what 'twas to fly

His gravitation's now for stars and planets:

These draw him, while the earth drops like a stone.

Strong-winged beyond the flight of gulls or gannets

He rises, ever rises; he is flown.

When he came back all Spring was in his vision;

Yet pined he like a wild bird in a net.

His dreams were all of fields and groves Elysian

Where he flew ever and no bounds were set.

Did someone bring his body down ? Then gaily

He waved to his foe: "Your luck to-day, not mine";

Shook himself free of bonds that irked him daily

With the last courtesy, so brave and fine.
He has o'erflown return in the wild rapture.

What rumour of him in the unending space Flying so far, so fast, beyond recapture;

The flying ecstasy bright in his face.
THE PRAYER

SHE drew the grey shawl round her head; " Sure it is bitter cold," she said "An' is there news of him, asthore ?

God help the mothers o/ the world!

"I do be prayin' to mesel' The Lord may keep him safe and well An' bring him back to his mother's door."

God help the mothers of the world!

"The lambs are perished wid the storm. God keep his darlin' head from harm well for her has ne'er a one! God help the mothers o/ the world!

And as I went my way I heard Her call like a lamenting bird

I used to fret that had no son."

God help the mothers o/ the world!
IN THY LIKENESS

Now those who would and who would not

Must drink Thy bitter Cup.

No angels in their garden plot

Their heads have lifted up.

They have been scourged and been stripped bare

As Thou wast long ago:

The bloodied thorns are in their hair,

Pressed deep as Thou didst know.

They have toiled up Thy Calvary hill

And fainted 'neath their load

With a good will or an ill will

Have taken the whip, the goad.

And they with Thee are crucified

Whether they will or no:

Now bid to left side and right side

Thy healing mercies flow.
Yea, when Thou dost commend Thy Sprite And the Third Hour has struck,

Summon from left hand and from right Thy black and Thy white flock!

On these, on those, Thy judgments fell. They died because they must.

Give them Thy Eastertide as well And New Life from the dust.

When with Ascension Thou dost rise Shall these not rise and go,

To find once more the Paradise They lost so long ago
THE FULFILMENT

Wno are these that go with our girl white as snow,

The one speckless lily since the world began

They carry the well-water for our little dear daughter,

Their wings are as sapphire, my good wife Anne.

Joachim, my husband, there is naught amiss,

Though something's changed our girl from the child she was

When from the hidden Temple she came, gentle and simple

Surely some wonderful thing of God has come to pass!

Anne, in the dawning when the lights were low

And the first bird was stirring I was sore afeard.

There was someone with our girl, clad in the rose and pearl,

For I heard his talking and her answer heard.
When she plucks the grapes from the clinging vine,

When she sweeps the hearth-place and kneads the bread,

There's a hand fine and slender, quick aid to render.

What light grows about her, our little maid ?

Anne, in the house there's a stirring of feet,

Winnow of wings and rustle upon the stair.

The flowers spring before her and the stars lean o'er her,

And a ring of light dazzles gold in her hair.

Joachim, my goodman, great things are afoot,

The Hour of God is striking and the Word fulfilled.

The child that shall be born shall wear the Crown of Thorn.

Yea, for world's healing His Blood be spilled.

Mary goes by them, slender and young.

The Rose of Sharon's budded and Jesse's Rod in flower,

Magnificat she is singing and her song soaring, winging,

Sets all the roses swinging in Heaven's bower.
THE SLEEP

GOD thought of sleep, so that He might Cradle His Man in the cool night With more than mother's love, and hold Warm to His breast the child of old.

Poor Man, that is so proud and high, Yet he must fall asleep and lie Open to all the winds and harms, Unless God rocks him in His arms.

Poor Man, though all besmirched, shall keep Yet the last innocence of sleep, And like a child must lie alone Defenceless, harmless, overthrown.

God's gentleness with sinners see In sleep they will not disagree Nor hurt as only lovers can; They are at one, God and His Man.
Tenderly night shall find him, held 
To a kind breast, who late rebelled; New-reconciled with kisses he Shall slumber on a mighty knee.

Man's but a toddling child, stripped bare Of all the countless years that were Little and low: God's art to keep A youngling thing in His arms asleep.
THE TRYST

LEST that His love should nod asleep, His fainting arms fall by His side, Lest He forget His tryst to keep, One sinner turn away denied, Wide on the Cross His arms are spread,

His bosom for the whole world's head.

Now, now, Himself He will not save,

His feet are halt for evermore.

Yea, though they lay Him in the grave And seal the stone and guard the door, He keeps the place He chose upon

The Hill: His anguish is not done.

The nails of Love have fixed Him there,

He will not take His bed and go.

His feet are hid in Magdalen's hair;

Through all the centuries, sad and slow, While Heaven awaits Him He delays,

Love's Prisoner through the unending days.
He broods above the battle-field,

His heavy head upon His breast:

Come, all ye wounded, and be healed.

Come, all ye broken hearts, and rest.

Come home, come home, black sheep and white,

In from the darkness to the light.
LONELINESS

HE who had all else Heaven and earth Could give Him, till His human Birth He had no mother, though He had His Father's love, secure and glad Yet He made mothers for delight Of the small babes in the cold night.

He saw how well His hand had made Her bosom for the baby's head, How tender are her arms to fold The shivering thing in a soft fold, And how her voice goes hush-a4 Rocking the cradle to and fro.

He has had all these for content. For three-and-thirty years has leant On a fond heart that fails him not. He is in the fiery chariot The clouds have ta'en him and the wind. But His sweet Mother's le/t behind!
What's wrong with Heaven? His Father's there, The brooding Dove's aloft in air, Heaven's as it was, serene, unflawed. For the first time the Heart of God, Lately made man, hath little ease, For loneliness, for loneliness.

THE SOUL PRAISES THE BODY

THIS holy body where Thou hast kept

For a brief season watch with me,

It shall not go unpraised, unwept,

When it shall break to set me free.

At its low door Thou hast come in,

And in Thy passage made it bright;

The poor stones where Thy feet have been

Turn now to rose and diamond light.

Face downward on my dusty floor,

Angels have bowed since Thou wert there,

And made it clean Thine eyes before,

Swept by their feathers and their hair.

Fragrances linger, a sweet smoke

Blown backward from Thy royal way,

So all the envious heavenly folk

Guess Thou wert here at break of day.
This body is now Thy holy house Where Thou didst come and sit at feast, While all the golden birds in boughs

Acclaimed the Day-Star and my Guest.

THE VISION OF MARY

THERE'S a white rose on the thorn,

A red rose on the tree,

And Christ is born on Christmas morn

That all men may go free.

The white rose for Mary,

The red rose for her Son;

When she came down through the sleeping town,

The red and white were one.

Curled like a little moon

He shone amid the hay,

The stars forsake their heavenly track

To sing him lullalay.

She kneels for to adore

The earth and Heaven's Desire.

Oh, what is this beneath her kiss

Throbs like a little fire
In each small hand she sees

A red rose-petal lie,

And while she sees hath little ease

Lest Herod should draw nigh.

And when on each small foot

She sees the red-rose stain,

She would snatch him fast unto her breast

Lest he in snares be ta'en.

Oh, when she sees the smirch

Of the red rose on His side,

What sword is in her heart; what dart

That will not be denied ?

What coronal of gems,

Of ruby or coral spine,

Now, now is laid on His pretty head,

With His sweet curls doth twine

His Mother stoops to kiss

The wounds of her Baby Son;

In dreams she sees a high trellis

And one red rose thereon.

The sword turns in her heart, She clasps Him warm and close, With lullaby-loo His fret unto

She lulls her Destined Rose.
THE PASCH

NOT yet, not yet has He arisen,

The mourning world awaits Him still,

Awhile He keeps His rock-bound prison,

Hard as the iceberg and as chill.

Love's willing prisoner He waits

While men and angels watch the gates.

For all the stone is rolled away,

For all the garden waits the sun

His Mother for her Star of Day

Still watching while the minutes run,

Cries: Son, wilt Thou not rise ? 0 rise,

My Sun, my Moon of Paradise!

The Friend of sinners, once again

Awhile with sinners He delays;

Not such as loving Magdalen,

Whose lovely eyes are water-ways

To bathe His feet and, having done,

Dry them in cobwebs of the sun.

Cold as the grave the stony heart 

Where He comes in and sits at feast. 

There's a white table spread apart

While Heaven awaits the Star in the East, 

And the poor garden sleeps in shade, 

He lifts the graceless heart He made.
THE GREY COUNTRY

I DREAMT a dream on November Night

Of the dear souls that wait in pain For the full Vision, the Delight,

Beauty that shall not change nor wane.

The grey country's to Heaven close,

Not Heaven but almost Heaven's twin; As a grey rose to a gold rose,

As a grey image faint and thin.

In the grey land were bliss enough

Did not the Vision shine and gleam, Turning the softest ways to rough

Until they might attain to Him

Mary walking in Heaven's bower

Heard the sighing after her Son Give me Thy Mercy for an hour,

Thou who wert once my little one!

Mary came with stars in her hair,

The new moon was under her feet;

In the grey world so still and fair

The heart of the world began to beat.

Some were clinging beside her skirt,

Soul on soul like a flock of birds;

Others nested, oh past desert

On the heart that had seven swords.

Mary gathers them one and all,

Many a one late home from war,

As they were children tender and small

Sweetly gathers them all to her.

As a green tree in a bird's flight

I saw Mary amid her flock,

Carrying souls in her veil white,

Hiding them warm in her blue cloak.
THE LITTLE BROTHERS

GoD the Son in Paradise,

Being young, looked down to see Sons of God in earth's disguise:

Are not these my brothers ? said He.

Though they stray so far, He said,

From My Father's purpose kind, His bright image overlaid

Mirrors now no more His mind.

All these children, brothers all,

Heirs to Heaven as it was meant; Shall their Brother see them thrall

While His Heaven holds Him Content

Take My orb and diadem!

I am weary of My throne: Let Me be as one of them,

Their own brother, yea, their own.

Let Me be of woman born,

just as weak, as frail as these;

Subject to their shame and scorn,

Solaces and agonies.

Take Humanity for wear,

Put on Sorrow for a dress

Know the piteous things they bear

Poverty and loneliness.

God the Father, Whom His Son

Pleases well, in fatherhood

Smiled upon His only One:

Go, dear Son: the thought is good.

Those who have lost Paradise,

My poor stained and wounded flock,

Now My own Son pays the price

And the Key turns in the lock.

Son, there is a day to come

And Thy cry shakes Heaven that day,

While Thy Father's bowed in gloom;

Yet-I would not bid Thee stay.
THE DREAMS

WHEN I am sleeping I go in dreams

Far from the children and the man beside,

I meet with the dead and talk, nor strange it seems,

Since I've forgotten that they ever died.

They come in so quietly, the loved and lost.

There is so much to say in a short while.

Nowise strange it is that a dear ghost

Should be as the living and be glad and smile.

In the old garden we go hand in hand.

When friends are long parted there is much to say,

Much to be explaining and to understand.

We walk in old gardens in a long-dead May.

Breasting the hill we go we skirt the wheat,

By houses and gardens that once I knew.

All too fast the time goes when old friends meet.

Sure, I was starved for you, and you, and you
Was I forgetting, then, the patient dead I

Mercy of mercies that in dreams they live!

They come seeking and finding me upon my bed.

In dreams they comfort me, in dreams forgive.

They come to me in my dreams, not cold and lone.

Oh, never sad ghosts they come to fret my sleep,

But just as I knew them in the days long gone.

When I wake from my ns I wake to weep.

AFTER YEARS

I GIVE God glory and grace

I am come home again

To the delightsome ways

And the wild soft rain.

Lights on the hill and plain

As in remembered days.

Now I am home again,

I give great praise.

When I awake at dawn,

I hear the birdies sing;

Deep dews in field and lawn,

The mountains in a ring;

Life an enchanted thing,

The hour grey as a fawn;

I whisper thanksgiving

When I awake at dawn.

I seek no more the town,

Ah, wherefore should I gu

Hills to the sea look down,

The rivers softly flow.
With friends of long ago

Life has a golden crown,

In fields I used to know,

And meadows grey and brown.

And if the night be chill,

Of fuel I have great store;

We heap the fire until

The faggots leap and roar.

All my beloveds of yore

Of talk shall take their fill

Till the grey dawn's at the door

And the grey wind at the sill.

THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN

THE Little Old Woman has found you at last,

The Little Old Woman who is born a Queen;

She stands and she rattles at the door long-fast:

Gladly it opes to her, and she steps in.

The Little Old Woman is the World's Rose.

With the milk and the honey she comes again.

Were you forgetting her for These or Those

The Little Old Woman has the hearts of men.

Under her tatters she is fair and young:

Sweetness of sweetness is her honey mouth;

Men have died for her to save her wrong;

Love been spilt for her through the long drc

Were you forgetting her for These or Those?

Shall you forget her to the last heart-beat

Dark Rose of Tenderness, and the One Rose

To turn Life bitter and to make Death sw:
SANCTUARIES

THOU givest me greenest sanctuaries 
As the birds have the trees. 
The birds have the trees and I 
Deep shadow and blue sky, 
A well of waters, a palm tree, 
A bird and a bee.

As though I were Thine only one 
Thou makest for me alone 
A hearth-fire in the wintry cold, 
A walled city, a sweet fold, 
A winged sentinel to tell 
To the night: All's well!

Thou spreadest over me and mine 
The night a-shine 
With strange and wonderful eyes of stars; 
And weary of the day's wars 
Into the nest of love we creep 
And lie asleep.

Hearts are Thy sanctuaries: Thou hast set 
Wide open a heart's gate 
Where I come in and am at rest, 
A bed for my heart, a nest, 
Sure comfort, surplusage of love. 
Thou givest enough!

Woods are Thy sanctuaries and all 
Dear gardens musical, 
And fields and groves where it may be 
Thine angel walks with me. 
Thine angel! Nay, but Thou dost walk 
With me and talk.
AN ABIDING CITY

My city walls are builded sure Whatever foes assail;

I go my ways in peace secure As I were clad in mail.

The Hand that holds me keeps me well, 'Twixt earth and heaven I rest.

Within that Hand in joy I dwell, Without am sore distrest.

Free from all cares this Hand doth hold Poor folk that creep within.

Darkness and grief are turned to gold, There's naught of soil or sin.

When dawn comes redly up like wine It shines through Fingers five;

The Precious Blood was shed long-syne To keep my soul alive.

Safe in that Hand nothing I dread, No foe shall make me fear.

I who have roses for my bed Soft as a bosom dear.

My city walls are builded strong, My sentries go in white,

The years long and the seasons long Pass in a dream of light.
ANNIVERSARY

THERE were so many to pray for, 0 dear grey head,

Your day went out unnoted; but when I slept,

Tender and all-forgiving you came from the dead,

Came in my dreams to remind me of trysts unkept.

Never a prayer was offered: no Mass was sung:

I thought day-long on the stranger in bitter need.

Into my dreams, my dear one, as when I was young,

You came and we clung together, 0 dear grey head.

All night long it was parting, and parting soon

All night long I was weeping, and weeping sore

That was the loneliest parting under the moon,

When the day and the night together met at the door.

Dear, but you had to travel so far to remind

Your daughter who went forgetting, ah, cold as the clay!

All night long you stayed with me, fond and kind;

All night long you grieved with me until the day.

THE LAST QUARREL

As I lay sleeping on my bed,

Before the dawn of day, I dreamt my only Love was dead

My only Love aiway.

Oh, dreadful anguish of a dream,

Beyond all waking grief!

In all the darkness not a gleam,

Nor in the pang relief.

Yet was I spared the sharpest sword,

And the fierce thrust thereofI had forgotten the last word

Wherewith I sped my Love.
THE TREE

THINK of her when she shall be dead

As of a kindly tree

Within whose boughs some nests were made

For downy babes to be.

Through sun and shade on the greensward

Her songs went up in praise

Who mused upon the forest's Lord

Through all her length of days.

No king of woodland she, but just

A small tree, low and wide,

By which some faint from heat and dust

Sat down well satisfied.

Say that she had a well to keep

Where all might drink their fill,

Say that she comforted with sleep

The sorefoot traveller still.

Say that the creatures came to graze, 

And lay in pastures cool

Beside the pleasant water-ways, 

And her content was full.

Say that her pleasant maze of shade 

Soothed the aching eyes

Like dew upon the heavy head 

Under the throbbing skies.

Say that her birds were never far 

But they came home again

And in her branches singing were 

Despite the snow and rain.

Say that in Spring her boughs were green, T

he joy ran in her blood,

That Summer clad her like a Queen 

Under a velvet hood.

But say that when her Autumn came 

Her best was yet to be:

She clad herself in gold and flame 

Like to a Burning Tree.
Say that she feared no Winter white 

In whose thin boughs did swing

The moon, the stars, for a lantern bright 

To light the feet of Spring.

Say that her head was never bowed 

Though trouble might befall,

The bird in her heart sang low and loud 

And made amends for all.

Say that in fine, her spring beside 
She was merry and gave grace.

And some were sorry when she died 

Who lost a resting place.
THE STORY OF THE BAMBINO

WHAT is it like a light that goes 
Swaddled in gold from head to toes

With chanting cleric and acolyte 
In the crimson and in the white.

'Tis the Bambino goeth with speed 
To succour a woman in her need,

For the dear Lady's sake who lay 
And bore her Son in the cattle's hay.

The woman is taken in mortal strait. 
Peace! the Bambino is at the gate!

The woman cries from her loneliness. 
Peace! the Bambino cometh to bless!

Three fair sons she hath borne in pain: 
The three lie out in the night and rain.
Dear Bambino, dear holy one, 
Save for this mother one little son!

To her own heart she speaks: If he, 
The blest Bambino, would stay with me,

Surely my pangs would be light and short, 
Nor the little bird new-'scaped take hurt.

Joy and peace would be mine and his 
Who comes when the travail hardest is.

Surely my little son would thrive Nor go to his brothers who would not live.

Under the linen sheet there is 
Another Bambino like to this;

Painted so fine, carven so well, 
No man could one from the other tell.

The dear Bambino by her is laid, 
Joy is come to the childing-bed.

She takes from Bambino his robe and crown; 
The false Bambino hath a gold gown.

On the Bambino she turns the key: 
I and my babe shall have joy: saith she.

Her travail is over ; the child is come 
No finer baby may be in Rome.

The women cry from their beds and pray: 
Blessed Bambino, where dost thou stay

The priests come singing their hymns and bear 
The false Bambino high in the air.

The people drop on their knees and cry 
Viva Bambino / while that goes by.

Bambino goeth in gold and white; 
No woman is eased of her grief to-night.

For the true Bambino lieth forlorn, 
Naked as Christ in the stable born.
Patience, Lordkin, the woman saith: 
Who has saved this night my son from death,

I will build Bambino so fair a shrine 
For Ara Cccli he will not pine.

He shall have a cradle as soft as down, 
And finest woollen to be his gown,

Not stiff with jewels, nor miniver, 
But soft for a precious baby dear.

The night is dark and the snows fall. 
What is it flits by the outer wall ?

There's a patter of naked feet, as soft 
As Mary kissed in the cattle-croft.

Whence is this baby in the chill light, 
Ringed about with a ring of light

The Burning Bush that Moses saw, 
And a golden bird in the golden shaw.

At Ara Cccli they sleep and dream. 
What is it flits in the wet moonbeam

The bell soundeth, the knocker too: 
Let me in: I have much to do.

Let me in, for I heard as I ran 
The women call me in street and lane.

The sleepy brother is come awake: 
Who is it knocketh before daybreak

A little child on the door doth knock. 
Oh, hear them crying, my piteous folk!

The door was opened and in there came 
A naked child in a golden flame.

The rain falls and the wind blows; 
In comes Bambino, fresh as a rose.

The women called me and I made haste. 
I, the Bambino, have travelled fast.
One hath taken my robe away: 
His feet are plaster, his body clay.

He hath no healing for them that cry 
On me in their bitter agony.

They have stripped the false usurper bare; 
They have taken the crown of gold from his hair.

They have cast him out, of his splendour shorn, 
He hath no care for the people's scorn.

Once more Bambino goes up and down 
The steep high streets of the groaning town,

And climbs the stairway, and through the door 
Brings life and healing as oft before.

The shrine in Ara Cdi hath 
Many new cradles, many a wreath.

MAGIC

A GOD, a god sits on my hearth, 
Laughs and plays with sober mirth, 
Sings a small song, merry and wild, 
As a bird might or a child.

As a kitten plays will play, 
Or a lamb on a May day. 
A happy, busy household elf 
Croons a wee song to himself.

Strayed here from some Olympian hill, 
This god in rose and daffodil, 
Yet boils my kettle, cooks my dish, 
Gives savour to the meats and fish.

I stretch my chilly hands above, 
And like my dog he fawns in love: 
Licks at me with a playful tongue 
And frisks, a bright thing, merry and ycun.
And yet so great a god is he, 
You shall approach him on your knee, 
Lest that his lightnings teach you awe, 
This Burning Bush that Moses saw.

He is the Ark no hand may touch, 
The Lily of Light without a smutch, 
The Living Rose that none may take, 
Caged in a gold and thorny brake.

This holy one stays with me still, 
Singing his small song merry and shrill, 
And hath so many things to do, 
There is no time to grieve or rue

For the great state he hath foregone, 
The Lord Sun's dear companion, 
Who toils and plays upon my hearth, 
Nor yet forgets his starry birth.

CALDRA

(On a Tyrone hillside)

THE little valley folded lies Amid the hills a-dream,

The silence, soft as lullabies,

Hushes the wind, the stream.

Here where no dreadful thing affrights, No lurking shadows creep,

Only the short sweet grass invites

The cropping kine and sheep,

The pagan giant takes his rest

Who died when this was new.

His huge slab broken o'er his breast

Has let the daisies through.

And round about and all around

The unchristened babies lie.

Only the mother knows the mound

And the name to call it by.
When the sad world is all in shade

They bring the babies here,

The little weary ones unstayed

By any Angel dear.

The mother lays her lamb away

Where soft South winds will blow

And where the sweet sun shines all day

On small graves in a row.

The mother smooths the clayey bed,

And sets the piteous stone

Where some most precious drowsy-head

Sleeps on alone, alone.

But when the Winter nights are long

And the hearth fires are bright

And babes sleep sweetly and grow strong

Lapped up in fleeces white,

And when the mother's arms let go

The happy babe full-fed,

These hapless ones in frost and snow

Must go uncomforted.

But the old giant in the mirk

He hears the cry and call:

Come hither, 0 children from the dark,

My arms have room for all.

No little babe need go afeard

Since he is strong and kind,

For all his armour and his beard,

His great voice on the wind.

The unchristened children rustle and stir,

Their hearts are not dismayed,

God sends as once St. Christopher

His pagan to their aid.

Now like a flock of frightened birds

The little ghosts will fly.

He hath mothered them with tender words

And stilled their lonely cry.

The pagan giant now grown mild,

His notched sword by his arm,

Draws close to him the hapless child

That never else was warm.
As a hen gathereth her brood 
He keeps from eve till morn 
The little orphaned ones of God
That died ere they were born.

THE RECOMPENSE

GOD made a Garden first for Man

Where He and Man might walk together,

Before the bitter days began

And when 'twas always perfect weather;

A Garden full of fruit and flowers,

The butterfly, the bee, the dew

Man had enough in those sweet bowers

Before the old snake wriggled through.

But when poor Man was driven away,

Hobbled and sad, from those bright portals,

When there was nothing more to say

Between the stript unhappy mortals;

When Eve went shivering in the wind,

With all her sweetness nipt by frost,

God put it into Adam's mind

To build a House; so all's not lost

'Twas built of clay and wattled boughs.

So comfortable 'twas, the creeping

Out of the rain into their House,

To dream of Eden in their sleeping.
He taught them next to capture Fire,

The wild sprite of the roaring storm,

And tether him to their desire

Upon a hearthstone bright and warm.

Yet there was something incomplete;

They wept for their remembered busses

Till God slipt something wondrous sweet

Betwixt His anger and their kisses

The Woman shall make Home: He said:

With children, and the hearth-fires burning,

And with her bosom for his bed

My Adam praise Me night and morning.

THE IMMORTAL

HERE, where I went in and out,

I no more may come and go. This with sweetbriar fringed about

Is another's garden, so His the master's foot to come In each dear, remembered room.

Such a blank, forgetting face

The house turns that was my house, Where I built a little space,

As the birds build in the boughs. But the birds-the birds are gone And the vernal days are done.

Forth I fare that once would stay.

I have neither walls nor roof, Being a traveller, blithe and gay,

In a world that's weather-proof, Where no rust eats in, no moth Frets the sacred altar-cloth.
Open, skies, and let me through.

Here I struck no roots to be Fearful of all winds that blew.

There I shall grow a tree, a tree 

Where in calm and shining weather, 

My birds and I shall be together.

THE HOUSE OF LIFE

THE life of the body's a cage, And the soul within it

Frets to escape, to be free,

Like a lark or a linnet.

But since the struggle's in vain,

She is weary ere long;

She chirps and she sings a little

To assuage her wrong.

Behind the bars she sits brooding Her evil mishap,

Like a wild little hare or a rabbit

That's caught in a trap,

Till, dazed with despair, she is weary,

And struggles no more,

But plays with the sun and leaf-shadow

That dance on the floor.

They call-they call to each other 0 sister so small,
Are you there ? Are you there, little brother, 

Behind the blank wall ?

Like a bird, or a hare, or a rabbit, 

Frightened, undone, 

The soul calls to another, be not alone.

SUMMER AIRS

THIS air's a lovely thing: it blows

Softer than any kisses are;

Touches my cheek like a wet rose

Drenched in all sweetness, near and far.

There's heather in it, miles on miles,

Rough sweetness of great seas that break

On Achill cliffs and Clew's dear isles;

Oh many a mountain, many a lake!

What soft invisible Loving clings

About my neck and lifts my hair

The Eternal Love in these wild wings

Meets me and clasps me everywhere.

Thou mad'st for me this air, this wind,

These heavenly sweets for me, for me

That I might live and thrive, 0 kind!

Fed on the very Breath of Thee.
THE NEWLY-BORN

THE little soul looked out

Into a world of pain,

And sore oppressed with fear and doubt,

Shut eyes again.

Heard not the mother's cries

Nor saw her arms stretched wide,

Slipped back again to Paradise

On the next tide.

So small, so soft, so fair,

And like a carrier-dove,

The little soul, Love's messenger,

Fled back to Love.

0, in this storm and din

What place for her abode

The little white soul but looked in

Flew back to God.

AUTHOR'S NOTE

The poem "For an Airman" at page 29 is a rhymed version 0/ an article on the death of Lord Lucas which appeared in the "Times." I make the acknowledgment with apologies to the unknown writer.
