Easter Day, 1917-The Eve of the Battle

I ROSE and watched the eternal giant of fire

Renew his struggle with the grey monk Damn,

lowly supreme, though broadening streaks of blood lcbrnirch the threadbare cloak, and pour his flood Of life and strength on our yet sleeping choir, \s I went out to church on Easter morn.

Returning with the song of birds and men \cclaiming victory of throbbing life, saw the fairies of the morning shower Giving to drink each waking blade and flower, I saw the new world take Communion thenAnd now 'tis night and we return to strife.

HUTS, FRANCE, April, 1917. -

GEOFFREY H. CRUMP \IAJOR, ESSEX REGIMENT

God

J \VLN'[ alone into the fields to-night.

And stood upon the hillside, where the oaks 'have stood and talked of God in the twilight A'or centuries, and cracked their ancient jokes Over our heads; those veterans know more Of God than we have learned with all our lore.

I pressed my cheek against an oak's rough bark, And watched the sun drop down behind the hill; 'ilence fell on the valley; the last lark as hushed; and suddenly the wind was still A breath of air went rustling through the trees, And God passed by me in the sunset breeze.

A clock chimed in the valley down below; nie children shouted ; and the blue smoke curled tit of the cottage chimneys-'twas as though -ore could be nothing ugly in the world; Fhe lights gleamed from the houses in the wood lod God smiled, for He saw that it was good.

5'
Then, as I laid my head upon the ground, And waited there for dark night's close embrace. 1 heard, far oft, a murmuring, rumbling sound, As if the earth groaned at her own disgrace;

It trembled on the breeze, swelled, and then died;

Again the branches rustled, and God sighed.

Sunset

IKE a vast forest on some distant plain, Out in the west, dark, rounded clouds lay low Upon the sea o'er them, the sun's broad train

The glories of the golden afterglow.

Gold, and then crimson changing, through degrees

Of red and green, to fields of turquoise blue

i'hen darker blue, that challenges the seas

To deeper darkness, as the storm-clouds do.

[lien, when the stars gleamed faintly, blushing red

At their own eagerness and as this feast

()f beauty seemed complete, and day was dead,

I turned my face, and looked toward the east.

'[here I saw that which made me hold my breath;

I'd thought the sunset fair now met my sight, 52

In perfect contrast-like the peace of d

After life's glare--the grandeur of the

Iempty sky, still tinged with wondrous blu

The full moon hung, displaying royally i-Icr cold and naked beauty, as she threw

Her path of silver moonbeams on the sea.

God showed me then, that, if we learn to love

The beauties that He sends us in our day, More lovely yet will night celestial prove-

The perfect calm of passions passed away.

INDIAN OCEAN, November, 1916.

Off St. Helena

WHEN I sit silent on the swaying deck, And drink in the soft splendour of the ni he pale, proud moon; the sky, all cloud a-fin

Tile silver balls of phosphorescent light the white foam; the davits curving black

Against the sky ; the tall and stately mast,

swinging from star to star-though these all L.

thing of beauty, perfect, pure, and vast,

Pis naught to me save that I may devise ht I do look again into your eyes.

53
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Plymouth Mists

T1~~AR-DIMMED eyes my loved one lifted,

When she said good-bye to me;

Sweet, grey eyes, where colours shifted

Like the shadows on the sea

O'er the cliffs of Devon, keeping

Guard, like eyes, o'er Devon's mouth,

Sad, grey mists came stilly creeping,

Sorrow-laden, from the South.

Through the weary weight of sadness, And the numbness of despair,

Came a thought that turned to gladness

Even the pain I could not bear:

Those proud cliffs were calling clearly,

As Drake heard them in his day

"England knows you love her dearly,

Weeps to send you far away."

'Neath this brazen, blazing heaven, In a wilderness of sand,

Daily England's lives are given

For her newest, oldest land 54

Geoffrey H. Grump

Does there come a dream, consoling

Those who die on foreign ground,

Of the sea-mists, slowly rolling

Homewards over Plymouth Sound?

Should I die, I'll see them drifting

Through the mirage, ere I go

Maybe, if the mists are lifting,

I'll see sunshine on the Hoc

Should I live, when this is over,

And we've done what is to do,

England, smile to greet your lover,

When he hurries home to you!

U \P. , I)'ceiizber, 1916.

55
R. C. G. DARTFORD CAPTAIN, ATTACHED TO PORTUGUESE EXPLD1rIONART FORCE, FRANCE

A Soldier's Question: Spring, 1917

CURSE I the Spring that God has sent Raising such discord in my soul? 'Twas fitter when the winter's blast Could lash my spirit to the mast And send me drugged by brute control To battle with a grim content

Then Death took hold on the neck of Life And Earth's rough scalp lay touzied and scarred, And the winter-scream swept round me fierceThe softer visions to disperseWhile stripped by storms I stood on guard Cleaving the wind with keener knife.

But now with Spring to dream or grieve I am tempted, and the blushful day Reveals her oldtime beauty, far From mating with the ghost of War. Am I then laggard if I pray From this soul's scaffold quick reprieve?

56

R. C. G. Dartford

War-time Consolation

BUT for the watches dark Would you welcome the morrow? Can any joy reach your heart But mounts upon sorrow? Sorely pains in which you take part Pleasures will borrow?

Welcome Death

WHEN you've been dead beat, and had to go on While others died; when your turn to be gone ( overdue; when you're pushed ahead (' Go on till you die" is all they said), 7-ken-die-and you're glad to be dead!

57
CLIFFORD J. DRUC1 2.D LIEUT., GIoTJc[1ER REG!Mr\ r

Forecast

I F I should chance to fall, and find A last couch on this soil of France, Do not seek out with yearning mind

The place, nor give my grave one glailce.

The cross would mark a cenotaph

And careless of the flesh thus laid

In unfamiliar earth, I'd laugh

To know how quickly it decayed.

My spirit, freed, impatient still

At the irrelevant, blind stroke

That stole the servant of its will

With all half-done, with thews unbroke,

Vould swiftly reach the land which knew

The love that time had not yet staled,

-\nd haunt the country whence it drew

The life that has not sped nor failed.

58

Clifford J. Druce

Perhaps beside some lonely copse

A brook would flow with less of case.

The brooding wind that sways the tops

Murmur more plaintive in the trees.

And should you, lingering there alone, Feel on your face, some evening Its touch, that stranger, rarer grown,

Clothes some sweet, straining, half-spoke thing;

Know that the fate self-fixed must yet

Endure, whether I die or live;

And I still strive to ease the debt

Of kisses I was born to give.

FRANCE, May, 1917.

To a Grave of the Glosters

A WOODEN cross above your head, You lie, your course already sped And in this alien plain must rest The bones and body Cotswold bred.

Not long since, insolent with life You made the beech-topped barrow rife With your tumultuous vivid youth, With other lads. in sport and strife.

59
More Songs by the Fighting Men

And though you shook the earth o'er those ()Id warriors, close couched there in row,

Your careless clamour had no power ('0 trouble their sublime repose:

Who, if they felt at all the tread Of such as you pass overhead,

Wise with the wisdom of long years Were patient, knowing that their bed

""as spacious, patient too, withal That centuries after you were thrall

To undistinguished dust, they still Would hold their place, each in his stall.

But now, ere many months are told Over your head, encased in mould,

Children may play, with little care Of one beneath them, silent, cold.

'l'ake my salute : ere twenty years You knew, you reckon as your peers

The men of axe and spear of stone, \s far removed as they from fears

\nd doubts that vex men such as me.

mm all demands from henceforth free

On weary limbs and spirit tired,

>u hold eternity in fee.

6o

Clifford J. Druce

Spring in Picardy

WHEN earth was bare, and sky a murky pall,

And snow and sleet filled all the miles and days

That held us two asunder, all my gaze Was bounded by an impenetrable wall Of chill, numbed, burdened hours, that rose so tall I only dimly knew that your fair ways Lay far beyond it, where desire could raise

To bring you nearer, no sufficient call.

h God that blank was better borne than this Flushed wantonness of May, these maiden leaves

That bare themselves to bathe in the ardent moon.

There is a false note in the wood-dove's croon And all is meaningless, show that deceives,

I lollow, lacking its core and clue-your kiss.

6i
H. S. GRAHAM CAPT., R.E.T.

The Seers

THL Poets who have sung ha\e 305 rceaicd

The great abiding purpose for which G(-,(I I las led again the Nations to the Field Of Blood, through which our fathers ofttimes trod.

And we must wait ; for unto them alone rrhe Truth is naked who themselves, ahead Of all their fellow-men, away have thrown Their Life, and on the battlefield lie dead.

To them who thus to God have bared the Soul U shown the Truth, the Victory of Loss, Of Sacrifice of all for God, the bowl Which Jesus drained for man upon the Cross I

To them we turn, our lost, our best, our brave Vet should we hear though one rose from the gsa

FRANCE, 1916.

62

H. S. Graham

The Field of Blood

STRANGER, this foreign field wherein you lie Has many human vessels fashioned true Under the Potter's Thumb. The Priests did buy it with the silver Traitor Judas threw Into the Treasury, as he confessed lie had betrayed the Blood of Innocence. They bought the field for weary Strangers' rest And you are Stranger thrice,-to War's offence, To death and to this land. The World allied To other Traitors long have seized Our Lord And by this War have Him recrucified; And soldiers guard His Tomb with naked swords. But for all this the stone shall roll away, And you shall rise with Him on Easter Day

Oil. December, 1916.

63
WILFRID J. HALLIDAY ZND Lriur., WEST YORKS

"An Unknown British Soldier'

'T's In a little wooden cross In lonely grandeur there

That smiles upon a rugged mound Of weedy, unattended ground, For he was no man's care.

A broken bayonet marked the spot And troops would turn aside, '['ill loving hands rough cast the wood

And shaped a cross, emblem of blood, To tell where he had died.

He died unowned, for none could tell The silent hero's name

They saw the bloody wounds he bore,

The shattered limbs, but nothing more, And knew not whence he came.

64

Wilfrid J. Halliday

An unknown British soldier "-that Was all that they could say.

'Twas not for them to wet the eye,

Why lives a soldier but to die? And so they went their way.

But I may pause and probe his heart Before the shadow fell,

And think that he had still a prayer

For those frail souls who soon would share The moment black as Hell.

The flowers had bloomed when last I looked, The grass was freshly mown:

A shapely cross so chastely white Shone in the dazzling noonday light, Yet still the same "Unknown."

Unknown! Ah, no! thy name still lives, For One had seen thee fall

,And marked the sacrifice thus made, The debt of love so nobly paid, Faithful to Freedom's call.

PA',CE, Ylugust, 1917.

65
MALCOLM HEMPHREY. CORPORAL, ARMY ORDNANCE C0RP:

The New Year*

THE white moon like a queenly ship

Sails down the blue and tropic night, And all the clouds in homage slip

Into her light.

A quiet veil lies on the earth,

Whose silver glory makes me sadBeyond, ah me War's crashing mirth

Rings wild and mad.

Bcgone, old year, pass from thy own,

And make thou way for newer life Nor grace nor pity will atone

For all thy strife.

I watch thy last few embers die,

And thy bleak ashes-blown around By strong winds that go whirling by

Sink to the ground.

Fe idea of this poem came t nsa on the last night of the lying awake long after " lights out," I gaze,' out at the ugh my teat lattice-window.

66

Malcolm Hemphrcy

But rise to sink, and each black flake

Clings as a lambent stain upon

The young year's blossoms as they wake

And then is gone.

Yet wait ! some day a greater gale

Of Hope and Faith shall drive all doubt

And sharp despair beyond the pale

Shall drive without

'lie soul's infinite sorrow and

Vast shadows of a red, red year,

And undefiled, superbly grand,

Holy and dear

Again the asphodel shall grace

The world's lone, ravaged wilderness

And Youth, in roaming through that place

Of quietness,

Shall rest beside the peaceful graves

Where wild bees hover in the grass,

Which every warm and soft breeze waves

And ere lie pass

Shall kneel and lift a hymn of praise

For those who fought, without a fear

Or doubting heart to tear, to raise

God's good New Year!

-1-RICA, January, 1917

67
BRIAN HILL 2ND Liaur., DURHAM LIGHT INFANTRY

Salonika in November

UP above the grey hills the wheeling birds are

calling,

Round about the cold grey hills in never-resting flight;

Far along the marshes a drifting mist is falling,

Scattered tents and sandy plain melt into the night.

Round about the grey hills rumbles distant thunder,

Echoes of the mighty guns firing night and day,

Grey guns, long guns, that smite the hills asunder,

Grumbling and rumbling, and telling of the fray.

Out among the islands twinkling lights are glowing,

Distant little fairy lights, that gleam upon the bay;

All along the broken road grey transport waggons going

Up to where the long grey guns roar and crash alway.

68

Brian Hill

Up above the cold grey hills the wheeling birds are crying,

Brother calls to brother, as they pass in restless flight.

Lost souls, dead souls, voices of the dying,

Circle o'er the hills of Greece and wail into the night.

69
