MARTIN HILL

CORPORAL, R.A.M.(

On Seeing the Coast of England from Boulogne

A LONG low line of polished white Faintly the cliffs of England gleam, Now slowly fading out of sight, Now swiftly leaping back, they seem Strange joys, strange sorrows to impart, \nd voices whisper at my heart.

-\ quiet wood, a quiet lane, The song of birds amid the trees, The splash of sun, the sting of rain, The warm sweet air, the sighing breeze, And you beside our cottage door -\t eventide. Dear heart, once more

I see the first faint sunbeam tip The East with gold, the hills light up, Or stealing lower softly sip The dewdrop from the rose's cup; The glint of gorse upon the down, The long ploughed meadow strong and brown. 70

Martin Hill

\Vc wander 'mid the grassfield where The busy reaper wends his way) The sharp scythe flashes on the air, Ileavy the scent of new-mown hay Floats down the breeze, and all around The stricken poppies strew the ground.

Slowly my half-felt sorrows go And hope comes, gazing seaward where The dim cliffs glitter, for I know That these and you await me there, And I shall find them dearer far Enriched by all the pangs of war.

Requiescat

HOW young and bright he was, and when he laughed The air around seemed sharing in his joy; Fair was the world to him, nor spot nor stain Of all its hidden ugliness had laid A mark upon his face (that mark that sears And brands the souls that know it but too well) But all that's lovely in it lay beneath The wonder that shone shyly in his eyes. .\ child of Nature he, of woods and sunlit ways, Of rolling meadows where the air was sweet

7'
More Songs by the Fighting Men

new-born blossoms and the scent of hay; t hills and valleys, laughing streams and lakes \here rustling reeds their whispered secrets told. 'ill these he knew and loved, they were his friends, [is sole companions, and through them he learnt 'a know his mother Nature; all her moods )iverse and strange he learnt them one by one; icr summer laughter and her autumn tears, icr seeming winter harshness and the sweet crene repentance of her early spring. ife was his love, and in her warm soft arms Ic freedom found from care, repose and peace, 'nd finding knew that it sufficed.

\rid then came War to claim him, dragged him forth, orth from his quiet world, and flung him down ewildered and amazed, yet unafraid, 'he merest cypher in that crowded train. o hour by hour the meanness of War, \nd all its horrors, petty hates and sins Raged round his struggling head, until the day \ wandering bullet found him, and Death took nto himself what Life once held so dear.

Us face was smiling when they picked him up \s though he'd learnt his Mother's last great secret \nd in learning found all well.

No. 7 STATIONARY HOSPITAL, B.E.F., FRANCE. 72

HAROLD JOHN JARVIS CORPORAL, IHE DUKL 01 CORNWALL'S LiGnr INFANTRY

Dulce et Decorum est Pro Patriá Mon

I F England calls to-dayThe last long call of all, Valhalla's Trumpet-call Then may I live until The Goal shines past the Hill And in the last grand rally Hear echoed God's Reveille

In the Home Camp.

If England calls this dayIf in the great, grim fight I fall-with eyes all bright With sacrificial flame Whispering Her great name: Let these weak verses show To all the friends I know-,

I gladly died.

73
More Songs by the Fighting Men

If England calls this dayRemembered not hardship Glad-borne in War's dread grip-Not the strain of training, Or a year's campaigning, But the joy of greeting Pleasures, tho' but fleeting,

Entwined therewith.

If England calls this dayMay those who gave their love, Who lifted me above The petty things of Earth, And taught me all the worth Of splendid aim in Life, Know I, 'mid all this strife,

Remember them.

If England calls this dayThe last sweet Twilight calm, When guns withheld their harm Awhile, and let me dream Of Things That might Have BeenLeaf-music in the trees, And treasured reveries,

Shall die with me.

74

Harold John Jarvis

If England calls this dayNo craven heart would go From out a world loved so, As I love this. Each day More loved is Nature's sway Of Earth, its every joy Of Pain or Joy-yet I,

o gladly die.

If England calls this dayWith yet one aim unwon, Of all aims just the one Far dearer than the restTo woo and win the best Thing that the World can giveThe Gift of Love-To Live

I would not wish.

If England calls this dayThen shall I die that She May live in LibertyThat She may still be great To rise above blind Hate Of Foes-Her Flag unfurled, God's England to the world,

For aye to be.

75
More Songs by the Fighting Men

If England calls this dayThe rose-clad days of June, That fled by all too soon, Shall be with me again In Memory-and when The daylight sudden closes, The perfume of June Roses Shall waft me hence

If England calls this dayFrom those far Hills of Home, Beyond the sky's dim domeShall merge Valkyries fair, Swift riding thro' the airWho know I shall be there, Treading the rose-strewn stair

To that New Land.

If England calls this dayIn the Valkyrie's touch Shall be forgotten much: Her flying, perfumed hair Shall speak of Roses rareAnd climbing thro' the breeze, Remembered melodies Shall call me Hoi

76

Harold John Jarvis

At a Wayside Shrine

THE column halts before a wayside shrine To change formation into battle line From double file. 'Tis even, and the sun Its daily circling race has wellnigh done. Behind me in the West, a dying glow Of gold still gleams, to cast a pale halo Upon the shrine.

How many men before To-night have halted at this spot, and wore The same grim, ready look that I see now Painted on every face from chin to brow, And in each eye? One and all are ready For come what may; each man now stands steady Waiting command.

And now the line will pass The shrine-itself as steady as the mass Of England's sons slow moving to the fray, Their Destiny now in the hands of-say, The dim Divinity within that shrineA loving God (the stricken Christ His sign Of Love)-or what?

77
More Songs by the Fighting Men

The shrine is rent and drille \\ ith bullets-aye, and some of them have kille Passing right thro' the thin mud walls, and past The Hanging Figure in the plaster cast, On to some human target, trudging by, (Dropping it low with sharp surprised cry) Even as I trudge by.

So have some died For Right-bravely as Christ the Crucified Died on Calvary's Cross ; just as brave And just as sacrificially. To save The world He died, or so the worn-out creeds Of Church would teach-but they, but men, dan, deeds And died as men.

Because of Greater Love'That Love of Loves, all other loves aboveThe love of Home and Friends and Native Soil. That these might never be the Foeman's spoil, They gave their lives, their youth, their gold dreams \iid airy castles, built where Su.nlight gleams, And Roses bloom

78

John

And gave Chi  us, that day on Calvary.

stricken Christ . . . a broken shrine . . . and men khaki marching by . . . . How little less vine these khaki -dads in their worn dress an He, the Christ of God ? For in each man e same soul burns.

And ere I leave the shrine, )ok upon the Christ-then at the line iiien . . . back to His face and those closed eyes open when one lingeringly looks if into their depths. These men . . . those eyes . ing, pain-haunted eyes, hard gazing down seem, these-these other Christs in thin disguise khakibrown.

79
D. T. JONES 'u LIEUT., M.G.C., FRANCE

Flint

SI'AND in a hail, where carved men Make love to thee and win thy heart. And when thou kissest, cling for aye: For of their band, thou art.

To a Warship

PROUD monster, swung in the bosom of thu prouder deep, hear thy song, that hustles down the corridors of Time; 1 doom exultant in its strains-or is it peace?

List forth thy iron soul upon the seas-and break This cruel Inquisition of To-day.

\'. hat wilt thou sing? What story wilt thou teh \'here dwells thy fate-in Heaven or in Hell

.E.F., FRANCE, Augusi 16, 191780

R. WATSON KERR 2ND LIEUT., TANK CORPS

Sounds by Night

I HEAR the dull low thunder of the guns Beyond the hills that doze uneasily, A sullen doomful growl that ever runs From end to end of the heavy freighted sky: A friend of mine writes, squatted on the floor, And scrapes by yellow spluttering candle light.

Ah, hush " he breathes, and gazes at the door, That creaks on rusty hinge, in pale affright (No words spoke he, nor I, for well we knew What rueful things these sounds did tell.) A pause-I hear the trees sway sighing thro' The gloom, like dismal moan of hollow knell, Then out across the dark, and startling me. Bursts forth a laugh, a shout of drunken glee

FRANCE, 1917.

F Si
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Rain

H! when it rains all day And the sky is a mist That creeps by chillily Where sun once kissed, Like death pale shroud, My soul cries out aloud In hopeless misery.

I cannot read nor write A line for gloom, My life lags, drenched of light To cheer its tomb; Chill and wet, Comfortless 1 fret In hopeless night

And naught to hear but rain Battering the ground o numbing pain! o maddening sound! Drowned in sky Trees drip, drip, and sigh And drip, drip, again!

IRANCE, 1917

8;Z

R. Watson Kerr

The Ancient Thought

THE round moon hangs like a yellow lantern in the trees That lie like lace against the silk blue sky; 0 still the night ! 0 hushed the breezeSurely God is very nigh.

At the Base

THINK not of me as facing Death, Tattered, labouring for breath Rather think of one who strays Dreaming dreams by perfumed ways.

Soon I may die, ah, true, 'tis true, But look ! the night is rich with blue Of peaceful skies, and soft the breeze Sings in the trembling poplar trees

And slowly thro' the rustling grass O'er woodland glade, I, dreaming, pass; To-morrow? Death? Ah, what are these But passing childish phantasies

FRANCI. July. 1917.

83
More Songs by the Fighting Men

In Bitterness

TAKE Thou this box,

0 Heart's Desire, In it lies Thy ring And more, my heart, bleeding Take out Thy ring, 0 Heart's Desire, And, laughing, toss the box Into the fire

FRANCE, 7uly, 1917.

DUDLEY H. HARRIS CAnE 1', TANK CORPS

Left Alone

LFT alone among the dying All around are moaning, sighii, Or are cursing, sobbing, crying In Death's crushing, hushing hand. We are torn upon the wire, We re scorched and burnt with fire, Or lie choking in the mire Of the star-lit " No Man's Land" 84

Dudley H, Harris

Hear our prayers, 0 1 gentle Jesus, Send Thine angels down to ease us From the pains of Hell that seize us, From our burning, yearning thirst. We are broken, we are battered, Bodies twisted, crushed and shattered By the shells and bullets scattered

On this strip of land accurst.

Round about are shadows creeping, Formless Things which wake the sleeping, Glaring eyes from shell-holes peeping,

Mocking always at our pain. Cold and wet our limbs are numbing, Fevered brows are drumming, drummingAre the stretchers never coming?

Are we numbered with the slain?

God in Heaven, canst Thou hear us? Mary Mother! Dost Thou fear us Stretcher-bearers, are you near us?

Give us water or we die But a grisly shadow's creeping With his cruel scythe a-reaping Weary souls which fall to sleeping

In a choking, croaking sigh.

85
FRANK C. LEWIS FLIGHT SUB-LIEUT., R.N.A.S.

Belgium, 1914

THE lithe flames flicker through the veil ol night,

Licking with bitter tongue ; and soon the daw ii Will come, and gaunt and black against the white

Cool sky will loom a smoking home, forlorn Of all the joy and peace that once was there.

The pleading, pitiful dead lie mute and cold And all untended still. The fields are bare

Of the young green, the parent of the gold.

O little land, great-hearted, who didst give

Thine all for sake of others' liberty,

Flight Sub-Lieut. Frank C. Lewi,, R.N.A.S., was killed in aerial combat in France on August 21st, 1917, aged 19 years. He 1s only been twelve days in France, being selected for a fighting quadron three days after he landed. His squadron commander described him as having already proved "a brilliant pilot," an of his last air fight that "he fought bravely to a noble end." iie fell in our lines and is bur:el at Bailleul. The Belgium sonnets were written in iiç while he was a boy at Marlborough,

86

Frank C. Lewis

Knowing the cost, nor shrinking at the thought,

Be sure that thy immortal name shall live

Writ large in thine own ashes. Men shall cry, This was a nation marvellously wrought !

H

There came a voice from out the darkness crying

A pleading voice, the voice of one in thrall

"Come, ye who pass-oh, heed ye not my sighing?

Come and deliver ! Hear, oh hear my call!

For when the invader stood before my gate

Demanding passage through with haughty tone,

A voice cried loud, 'Wilt thou endure this fate?

Better have death than live when honour's flown!'

And so my children now lie slain by him

I had not wronged; with strife my land is riven;

Dishonoured here I lie with fettered limb.

To desecration all my shrines are given,

And nought remains but bondage drear and grim.

God ! Is there any justice under heaven ?

87
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Ad Profunda

WE have built high walls of pomp and pride And wealth, around our inmost Being, And deep, unseen, within there hide

Visions too bright for our dull seeing.

We yearning stand, and cannot pass

To where the Soul with these is One; Our utterance is as the grass

Withering beneath the noonday sun.

The Waters of Infinity

Break on the spirit's lonely shore Lo the wall crumbles, and we see

All we have hoped and striven for.

0, then all time is lost in Time, The Soul has burst its prison-bars We walk with feet still deep in slime,

But with our heads above the stars.

88

Frank C. Lewis

The Downs, looking from Savernakc Forest

WITH eager steps I climbed the hill Ploughed with deep, age-old furrows, till I reached the forest's edge and gazed Across the low red town smoke-hazed, Upon the downs, windy and bare, Ridge upon ridge unending. There No sound is heard save only these, The wind's wild song 'mid lonely trees, The echo of sheep-bells, and the cry Of peewits circling in the sky. Back in the dawn of time on earth, Before she brought her sons to birth, You stood the same as now you standUntroubled, vast, majestic, grand Only you had not heard the tramp, Old Hackpen Hill and Barbury Camp, Of many an army passing by Under a blue and cloud-flecked sky. And happy they who fell in fight Upon your clear and wind-swept height: With thunder for their requiem' And the dark clouds to weep for them, 89
