Morc Songs by the Fighting Men

Hills of Home

TO gloam-blue hills that shadow moorland

To legend-haunted vales where all is still, To that grey land where slumber martyred race,,,

My spirit flees at will.

I hear from far away the whaup's wild crying

Low o'er the moor and wind-swept fringe of sea,

And longing fills my breast and I am sighing

Sighing for love of thee.

I see, as in a spell, the bracken flowing

Like silver streams beneath a battered moon

I see the heather darker, redder blowing

Flushing to crimson soon!

In dreams I ioam the long-forsaken places,

In scented wood, by nil and grassy howe;

And, smiling, greet the old familiar faces

And I am happy now!

Dear Hills of Home, I ask but this of heaven

(If thou my captive spirit wilt not free !)

That in my dying moments I be given

One last, fond kiss from thee.

1916.

110

Murray McClymont

To a Fallen Coinradc

HEARD the voice of Spring come softly pleading cross the fresh and breathing wold to-day: ' sun, set free from cloudy bonds, was speeding 1'o greet the earth with each impassioned ray.

lc-flung my casement in the cool I listened

I 'lie birds were busy toying with a song, I far afield where dappled grasses glistened 'lie meadow brook was murmuring along.

I then there came a bee with yet the numbing anguors of the winter on its wings: urned to gold the quiet with its humming\,)d then resumed its drowsy wanderings.

ked upon the fields and trees and hedges id saw before mine eyes a world reborn; on beyond the green world's utmost edges. "crc Hope retreated bleeding and forlorn !

III
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Ah! then I knew that Spring would only bring n

Blue skies and songs and flowers drenched with dew!

Ah! then I knew that Spring could never bring me

The friend I had and, having, lost in you!

April, 1917.

112

RUDOLPHE LOUIS NEGROZ LNCL-CORPORAL, WEST YORKS

Con Amore

I F but my love were as my love should be, And pen a fitting scribe unto my heart, ['yen then your praise I could not worthily To ringing rime chime forth no earthly art Could frame the incommunicable worth ['hat is all yours, purchased with many tears, \nd patient bravery, and happiness of earth Lenounced to buy your children's future years. ['hen on the little mound your toil made good \gainst a merciless tide of circumstance 11 stand, taking the breath of gratitude

o mind and heart their power to enhance,

That I may reach the ear of future times

And hint my Mother's worth in these poor rimes.

The world must know your greatness, little Mother I will not have it so to be confined That it should dwell but in the heart of my brother, My sister's and mine own, and in our mind

H113
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Invoke respect, tongue-tied however just. 0 Heart turn lyre within me ! You are stiicd At her great contemplation, then you must Shake into song, though be it as a bird Whose artless iteration of his theme Makes music without skill, by virtue of The cherished sweetness of the Spring, his drear. Through bitter Winter. Sing but of her love, Of her exceeding love, 0 Heart, then you

May render somewhat of the debt her due.

So great your love is, Mother, it may be Nor held by words nor compassed by my rime; It has o'erwhelmed the wide, disparting sea, It has assaulted battlemented Time To keep your guardian spirit round me when Danger affronted or but lay in lurkDanger of death in this mad war of men, Danger of sin in Life's worse war of work And play, shadow and light, quick tears, brief jo You knew Life's sweetness when you gave me bir And shared my infant bliss in stingless toys, Alas I that since then joy has been in dearth And grief has loosed so many of those tears

Which grew your Faith and Love beyond ti years.

"4

Rudolphe Louis Negroz

i have been exiled now for two long years, Known many dangers, many pleasant places; I have been near to Death just when he rears With terrible intent, and gazed upon the faces Of stricken comrades after his dread leap In eastern deserts I have worshipped beauty Austerely still, where Death and Life to sleep, And Home is a strange dream, and stranger "Duty"; Yet have your mother-hands reached out always With some sweet draught for Mein'ry; your pitying Softened the couch of hardships; darkest days Your brightest words did light who knew the sting Of this cruel war most cruelly deep at heartYour love to sing then, what an Angel's art!

Stern War has caused my life's frail barque to ride Some perilous seas of Death, made me warm friends With cold Privation, and like Dante's guide, Down doleful, dayless ways where this life ends And deeds, desires, are woven in hidden looms That pattern human fate, me has he led With hand relentless on my hand. 'Mid tombs My dragging and his careless feet did tread, Echoing fear about my heart, and then, [11 hiS con temps con ter t, my baud he treed I'S
More Songs by the Fighting Men

And left me breathing still the air of men On this sweet earth. Yet in my daily creed Shall be deep thanks to War that touched my eyes With sight to see in you my priceless prize.

Return is sweet to one who hath been far On pilgrimage or war's stern business, and Hath oft at evening watched the evening star Beckon to him beyond the desert sand, Whispering of those green lands of memory's home, Fertile with bliss that was and is to be, Until, no more inconstantly to roam With a sweet pain at heart then voweth he. But doubly happy in my happiness Am I who to anticipate made glad Drear days of trial, and find each cheerful guess So true, I gained such glad days from such sad: You are my home, and I find home confirm The hopes most glad of my sad exile-term.

And yet if I unto my verse would wed Fair Truth, who stands with grave unfaltering gaz Reading where late my labouring pen hath sped [n halting periods o'er my checkered days, Let me not write so of the present joy Of my home-coming that one could infer

116

Rudolphe Louis Negroz

pines complete, without alloy ii iv sad Knowledge, Wisdom's minit('r Do I not know the bitter tinge to Life Which Fate hath in your chaliced mother-heart Mixed with maternal sweetnessthe sharp knife That stabs your peace-the cloud that doth impart

A darkness to each day-a child's affliction, Bounding your every joy with stern restriction

True, true it is I know your suffering, dear, And that my knowledge never can attain To utter understanding nor come near With Sympathy your heights of holy pain. Vet to be comforted you'll not refuse, Knowing your Mother's heart can mine relieve; So take this comfort : that your son will use The gifts you gave him homage due to give Unto your humble greatness-never pray For richer boon than grace to sow these seeds Of future fame, to tell a later day ,`'dl the eternal splendour of your deeds.

Thus may I crown a life of little worth

With the rich praise of her who gave me birth.

These gifts you gave on God's behalf, I wonder How they are mine above all my deservng'clv life's path cluttered is with many a blunder '\r Duty-guided in a course unswerving,

117
More Songs by the Fighting Men

\s lies your own in beauteous symmetry Behind, beyond the rise of the distant hill Where finds the daylight first all that of me Does make the man, your son, heart, mind and will. Then how must I, with firm-held reins, with bit Drawn hard, hold in my spirited arrogance, The lust of youth, the usufruct of it, The power impetuous, seeking ever a chance To break away into loose licence, when

'Tis needed so, to praise you, by my pen!

There is not beauty enough in the whole worldCould it be brought obedient to my willNo hues of budding dawn, no colours furled After rich sunset, in the west, dim, still No melodies of brooks or birds, no tunes Which breezes wake among green leaves that lay Upon some summer's breathing breast-nor runes Around a lonely lake which ripples play, Falling on quiet shoresnor voice of shimmering ocean Whose anger sleepeth. Nay on all the earth There is no beauty stirring sweet emotion To paint, to sing, to monument thy worth

Nothing that can outbid in all of this

My pain-fraught joy feeling thy prideful khs. uS

Rudoiphe Louis Ngroz

\lother! toward you my gratitude now goes \ to a goddess of some ancient fane, Vorshipped for fruitful blessings, incense rose, Vhile the stone altar held the dove just slain In simple, penitential sacrifice, And the great congregation, humbled, bowed, Acknowledged thus the wondrous gifts whose price They could not pay but in surrender proud To gratitude's humility.But you Claim nothing slain in your cult, except What I would less than value-all the true, Enduring things in me have upward leapt, Striving to do your honour. So do I In humble pride my voice lift heaven-high.

FRANCE, Sept., 1917.

I Sq
ARMEL OCONNOR 'PRIVATE, EAST ANGLIAN FIELD AMBULANCE

Violet

I WOULD throw to magnificent doom White roses at her feet. Should she tread out the life of each bloom, What fate could be more sweet I would rifle imperial graves For rings of ancient skill 1 would bring her an army of slaves Dependent on her will.

I would build her a wonderful home, The place a Queen to please, Cedar walls with an ivory dome, Where she might dwell at ease. Should she covet the stars or the moon, Or, yes, the seraphim, I am sure I should count it a boon To satisfy her whim.

Bit I think of her beautiful face, tier kind, kind English heart

120

Armel O'Connor

With its personal treasures of grace That have no counterpart. And I know that she sets not the tasks Inferior Queens decree. That I love her, is all that she asks Of heaven and of me.

PALESTINE, Aug. 52, 1917

121
AVII) COX McEWEN OSBOR F LANCE-CORPORAL, IST MIDDLESEX

May-Day

WHO loveth whom He chasteceth Hath smote the earth With golden rods of sunshine

And silver rods of rain.

Our little laughing sister Hath doffed and put away The black she wore for penance

And white for Easterday.

She binds her hair with cuniiL.

And dons her gown of grce That all the flowers embroider

And all the dews wash clean.

Her golden-throated skylark

That sings and soars so praise and adorati( ~P i'fects the splendid 122

David Cox MeEwen Osborne

For seed and soul that quicken By Him have death withstood Who blessed the whole Creation

And saw that it was good.

Private Claye (Killed 27th June, 1917)

FROM clay in strength our native oak-tree grows To height and girth and spread of largest span; The sweet and crimson riot of the rose And wheat, the bread and sacrament of man. Clay built our homes, and towns of civil folk Where born were manners, arts and liberty; Clay are the pipes whence age can blow but smoke, And children orbs of bliss and vanity. This is fine clay: our common clay is finer Which England mine hath modelled not in strife To strive for England, and the Great Designer Into the nostrils breathed the breath of life. Claye, I salute what everlasting fame Jnfnrrns thiie ancient and illustrious name.
J. PETERSON

PR1VA, SSAFORTH HIGHLANDERS

Peace

]HERE is no peace, no peace," the big gulls 1. shout To drown the little voice that ev'ry hour, Persistent as the muezzin from his tower,

Proclaims that all is well.-Yet who shall doubt

The deep-sea thunder in dim moonlit caves,

The green hills singing to the morning sun, The wild flowers flaunting till the day is done,

Or plaintive sea-gull cries o'er twilit waves ?

No peace," they growl The little voice pleads On:

A lark high singing o'er the barrage blast, A moonbeam on the lake's dark bosom cast,

A whisper from a thousand mouths anon,

Lo beauty, beauty may not, cannot cease,

And beauty's thrice-starred crown is peace, is peace."

124

J, Peterson

Arras

I WENT and walked by Arras

In the dim uncertain night; I went and walked by Arras In the dazzling noonday light; First, I saw a fairy glamourLater, 'twas another sight.

Out by Arras in the night-time, Star-shells in the starlit sky Showered like wild silver raindrops From a fountain scattered high, Like the silver scales of fishes In the tideway curving by.

Out by Arras in the night-time There were glints of red and green Like the glow of fairy campfires In some hidden high wood seen, Like the day-dawn of the night-land Where no man has ever been.

Out by Arras in the day-time There stretched broad the sun-parched sand

125
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Where together men and torture Lived with foul death hand and hand. Horror-stricken, Godforsaken, There stretched far the war-cursed lant.

And upon the stretches barren Far I saw the thousands lie That the wind of war had blasted, Sweeping on without a sigh; In the hollows, huddled hundreds Who were not afraid to die.

126

"RICHARD RALEIGH" 2ND LIEUT., 0. AND B.L.I., FRANCE

A Soldier's Litany

WHEN the foemen's hosts draw nigh, When the standards wave on high, When the brazen trumpets call, Some to triumph, some to fall, Lord of Hosts, we cry to Thee,

Libera nos Domine!

When the opposing squadrons meet, When the bullets fall like sleet, When the vanguards 'forward dash, When the flames of cannon flash; Lord of Hosts, we cry to Thee,

Libera nos Domine!4

When mingled in the awful rout, Vanquished's cries and victor's shout, Horses' screams and wounded's groan, Dying, comfortless, alone, Lord of Hosts, we cry to Thee,

Libera nos Domine!

127
More Songs by the Fighting Men

And when night's shadows round us cloc, God of Battles, succour those, Those whose hearts shall ever burn For loved ones, never to return; Lord of Hosts, we cry to Thee, Libera nos Domine! (Save US, Lord.)

128

K. M. SCOBIE

2ND LIEUT., R.G,A.

Lunae

HAVE you ridden alone in the country ever By the dusty light of the harvest-moon? -Cycled intent in a vain endeavour To match your speed to your soul's quick tune When there's never a sound to break the magic; For the tyres' crisp whir on the powdered road And the hoot of an owl in the distance, tragic, Are pricking your heart with a fairy goad

Then the hawthorn hedges, sweet dissembling, Stealthily close on your path, till fear Of their dense bulk looms; and your heartsick trembling Shakes into stillness as you swing clear. Then the high haw-hedges furious will bide, Drawing back from the light of the moon: But the black trees haste down the silver hillside. You know in your heart that you laughed too soon..

I129
More Songs by the Fighting Men

They reach the roadside; and, leaning over, Wait for your coming. A swerving flash

Through their clutching fingers-then dreauicg

clover, And corn amazed at your passing dash Over the bridge as the water glides black Darker than death in a dream : then pales. The enchanted ground from the village slides back. Voices and lights and the magic fails.

130

R. HOWARD SPRING

CORPORAL, A.S.C., FRANCE

Hic Jacet

UNRECORDED and unsung, Lay his body in the clay; Buckler broken, sword unslung, Done the friendly light of day,

Done the song of birds in May, Praising life with flame-touched tongue.

Lay his body in the clay;

Sing no song of joy or sorrow; Fled the dream of yesterday,

Dead the dawning of to-morrow.

He no more will give or borrow 'Mid the dwellers of the day.

Those who knew him may forget him, Those who never knew remember; Woman, thou who didst beget him, And with tenderness beset him, See him lie amid the clay. 0 let him who will, remember
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Knowledge

TALK not to me of knowledge, I would lain Wander along life's dewy marge again, Plucking the flowers a-drip with morning rain.

Within a drop of dew is sphered the world; All mystery within a rose lies furled Tempests within a murmuring shell up-curled.

I sought for knowledge, and the shell is shattered. I sought for knowledge, and the things that matteredThe rose leaves and the dew-abroad are scattered.

Talk not to me of knowledge; she would tear The lily-chalice and let out the rare Communion wine that God has gathered there.

At Sunset: September, 1917

0LIVING beauty of the dying day! All the ungathered splendour of the hours Is folded in your heart, as all the wealth Of June lies perfect in a crimson rose,

132

R. Howard Spring

We who, unheeding, watched the little pools Of rippling light that underlay the trees, And saw the clear young arrows shoot the gloom Of chambers darkly curtain'd with no surprise, Kneel to the regal miracle which lends To death the august mystery life forbade.

And now upon these fields are gathered up In one great blood-red rose of sacrifice All unremembered buds of love and faith That shy young lives erst offered Freedom's crowns And to this fierce consuming altar fire, That speaks a God-ward world in tongues of flame, Each spark of heart's devotion lends its strength, Each candle-point of truth its warmth and light.

The Bells

[In Germany church bells are being melted down for war purposes.]

The Bells:

WHAT have we done

That sacrilegious hands should tear us down

From the high belfry above the little town, Whence now for fifty years to King and clown

We speak of life and death? What have we done?

'33
More Songs by the Fighting Men

First Bell

We rang for the coming of souls to ear We rang the joy of children's birth; We rocked and carolled the young life in, A holy carol to ward oft sin. Our notes flew over the grey old town In a helter-skelter, by the wind blown Higher and higher, and mingled at last With the songs of souls whose purging is past And then together we and they To the great Maker of Life would pray That the life might be blessed that was born day.

Second Bell:

Sadly we tolled the old life out That was done with laughter and tears and doubt. Silverly clear, when the moon sailed by And the tides of life throbbed stormy and high. We sang of faith and nerve and thew To meet the devil and wrestle through.

Third Bell: We rang of peace and we rang good-will On the Christ-child's day, so ghostly-still; When, dumbed with snow, the village street No answer made to passing feet. '34

R. Howard Spring

topped her breathing, knowing then Fhe seed of God sown among men. We rocked the steeple on Easter day When Christ the Spirit broke the clay In glory of yellow daffodils And holy laughter of dancing rills.

e Bells

o men who tear us from our place on high To make us messengers of hate and death, Thus you uproot the holy lily-flower And hug a dry and tinkling husk that holds No spirit essential and no soul of grace. Thus you tear out the heart from Sharon's rose, And only thorns remain to make a crown To lacerate afresh the brow of Christ. The tower remains, the shell that th' outward eye May see and reverence as a God's abode. But 0 ye happy ones whose inward eye Not unillurnined is, pass by and say: Here lies the clay inanimate by fire Here stands the empty stall that has no choir Here die the lives from which the God has fled. Behold The Christ steals by with bleeding head.

135
J. E. STEWART MC,, CAPT., BORDER REGIMEN I

Before Action

01VER the down the road goes winding, A ribbon of white in the corn

The green, young corn. 0, the joy of binding The sheaves some harvest morn

But we are called to another reaping, A harvest that will not wait.

The sheaves will be green. 0, the world of weeping Of those without the gate

For the road we go they may not travel, Nor share our harvesting;

But watch and weep. 0, to unravel The riddle of this thing!

Yet over the down the white road leading Calls; and who lags behind?

Stout are our hearts ; but 0, the bleeding Of hearts we may not bind!

SOMME, July, 1916.

136

J. E. Stewart

Renascence

THERE is a stirring in the woods

Has not been heard these many Springs,

A pulsing eagerness as broods The dawn about awaking things. And signs are on the little hills That take the sun while yet on high The mighty peaks, whose grandeur fills The noon, are muffled in the sky.

There is a murmur 'neath the noise Of cities and the common crowd, As though some elfin undervoice Sang thro' the buzz and discord loud; And songs above the red alarms Of bitter War rise clear and free, As it she cruel shock of arms Trembled a sweet expectancy.

Once, in the days of barren Art, When ebbed the line of Beauty's pow'r, Nature bestirred poet's heart To give the worls a jumsioned hour And such an hour is tieinbling sure O'er this our weerv y and long, To bring our sickcn'c uIs a cure ith a new mi  rong.

FLANDERS. 193!,
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Courage

I WAS afraid of Fear, Not of the foe

And when I thought that those I hold most dear My craven soul would know

And turn away ashamed, who praised before, Ashamed and deep distressed to find it so,

I was afraid the more.

Lo, when I joined the fight, And bared my breast

To all the darts of that wild hellish night, I, only, stood the test,

For Fear, which I had feared, deserted then, And forward blithely at the foe I prest

King of myself again.

ENVOY

Blessed be God above For His sweet care, Who heard the prayers of those whom most I love And my poor suppliance there, Who brought me forth in life and limb all whole, Who blessed my powers with his Divine repair, And gave me back my soul 138

ERIC FITZWALTER WILKINSON M.C., CAPT., WEST Y0RK5HIREs, B.E.F., FRANC! (Killed in Action, October 9, 1917)

To a Choir of Birds

GREEN are the trees, and green the summer grass,

Beneath the sun, the tinest leaf hangs still

The flowers in languor droop, and tired men pass

All somnolent, while death whines loud and shrill.

O fine, full-throated choir invisible,

Whose sudden burst of rapture fills the ear

Are ye insensible to mortal fear,

That such a stream of melody ye spill,

While murk of battle drifts on Auber's hill, And mankind dreams of slaughter? What wild glee

Has filled your throbbing throats with sound, until

Its strains are poured from every bush and tree,

And sad hearts swell with hope, and fierce eyes fill?

The world is stark with blood and hate-but ye

Sing on ! Sing on ! in careless ecstasy.

'39
WALTER LIGHTOWLER WILKINSON LTEUT., 8TH ARGYLL AND SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS

(Killed on Vimy Ridge, April 9, 1917)

A Lament from the Dead

PEACE! Vex us not: we are Dead, We are the Dead for England slain. (0 England and the English Spring, The English Spring, the Spring-tide rain: Al, God, dear God, in England now!) Peace! Vex us not : we are the Dead; The snows of Death are on our brow: Peace! Vex us not!

Brothers, the footfalls of the year (The Maiden month's in England now!) I feel them pass above my head: Alas, they echo on my heart! (Ah, God, dear God, but England now!) Peace ! vex me not, for I am dead The snows of Death are on my brow: Peace! Vex me not

540

Walter Lightowler Wilkinson

Brothers, and I-I taste again, Again I taste the Wine of Spring. (0 Wine of Spring and Bread of Love, O lips that kiss and mouths that sing O Love and Spring in England now!) . . . Peace ! Vex me not, but pass above Sweet English Love, fleet English Spring-Pass ! Vex me not

Brothers, my brothers, I pray you-hark I hear a song upon the wing, Upon the silver wing of morn: It is-dear God ! it is the larkIt is the lark above the corn, The fledgling corn of England's Spring! Ah! pity thoumy wearied heart: Cease ! Vex me not

* * *

Brothers, I beg you be at rest, Be quite at rest for England's sake The flowerful hours in England now Sing low your sleep to English ears And would ye have your sorrows wake The Mother's heart to further tears ? . . Nay 1 be at peace, her loyal dead Sleep ! Vex her not!

141

4
More Songs by the Fighting Men

The Wayside Burial

THEY'RE bringing in their recent dead-their recent dead I see the shoulder badge : a " Southern crush." How small he looks-(O damn that singing thrush !) Not give foot five from boots to battered head ! Give him a kindly burial, my friends,So much is due, when some such loyal life ends "For Country!" . . . Ay, and so our brave do die: Comrade unknown, good rest to you !-Goodbye

They're bringing their recent dead !-No pomp, no show: A dingy khaki crowd-his friends, his own. I, too, would like-(God, how that wind dc moan To be laid down by friends : it's sweetest so A young life, as I take it; just a lad(How cold it blows; and that grey sky, how sad I)And yet : " For Country "-so a man should die Comrade unknown, good rest to you !-Good-bye!

They're burying their dead !-I wonder now: A wife ?-or mother? Mother it must beIn some trim home that fronts the English sea. (A sea-coast country: that the badges show.)

142

V/alter Lightowler Wilkinson

sense her grief, I feel her tears then, the garnered harvest of my years

And he? . . . For Country, dear, a man must die!"

Comrade unknown, good rest to you !-Good-bye

It's reeded : he is buried ! Comrade, sleep

A wooden cross at your brave head will stand.

A cross of wood? A Calvary !-The Land For whose sake you laid down sweet life, will keep

Watch, lad, and ward that none may bring to shame.

That Name for which you died . . . " What's in a name " ?

England shall answer! rou will hear Her cry:

Well done, my own! my son-good rest: Goodbye!"

B.E.F., FRANCE, 4.3.57.

At Last Post

COME home !-Come home!

The winds are at rest in the restful trees At rest are the waves of the sundown seas And homethey're homeThe wearied hearts and the broken livesAt home At ease! B.E.F., FRANCE.

'43

4
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Night in War Time

NIGHT and night's menace: Death hath forged a dart Of every moment's pause and stealthy pass Blind Terror reigns : darkly, as in a glass, Man's wondering Soul beholds his fearful Heart, And questions, and is shaken : and, apart, Light Chance, the harlot-goddess, holding Mass, Scatters her favours broadcast on the grass As might a drunkard spill his wares in mart

Time and sweet Order have forsaken men, So near Eternal seems the Night's foul sway: We ask of Life "Has Chaos come again, With Ruin, and Confusion, and Decay?" Yet slowly, surely darkness dies : and then, Out of the deep night's menace, dawns the Day

B.E.F., FRANCE, January zth, 1917.

WM. RENDON AND SON, LTD., PRINTERS, PLYMOUTH, ENGLAND.

THE

REBIRTH OF POETRY

The Daily Telegraph, in the course of a remarkable leading

article under the above heading, on June 12th, said

Then came the war, with its strong appeal to chivalry and hardihood moral fervour, and our young men responded not only with the

iozard of their lives, but with all the warmth and generosity of deeply 'tirred hearts. And then the miracle happened. For many of these young urn, whom the novelty and romance of their lofty enterprise had shaken 1lt of their habitual reserve and their intellectual shyness, discovered Lilal they must join also the great army of singers and bards, and that al>' by means of poetry could they give expression to all the multiform

cinotional experience engendered in their minds by the great Crusade.

So it came about that Poetry was reborn in the throes of 'War, and that

Mars once more claimed kinship with Apollo and the Muses. Guards'an wrote sonnets ; privates composed odes ; corporals and sergeantsunlike the non-commissioned officers of the pastrelaxed their stern practical souls in "soldier songs." The phenomenon is not so

- rprising as at first sight it appears, although no one probably foresaw sat large dimensions it would assume. It is only reasonable to

uppose that moments of crisis causing a great emotional strain should their issue in verse. Poetry is, after all, the natural outlet for

'ase who feel deeply, and if hitherto the whole range of feeling and stiment has been kept under lock and key, owing to a modesty and

me-facedness extremely characteristic of Englishmen, it is not

together surprising that even those who thought themselves dumb

-ho'jld at such supreme moments suddenly find a tongue.

Mr. Erskine Macdonald, a publisher who has interested himself

oecply in this department of literature, produced a series of little books

Georgian verse and Soldier Songs, which have a distinct character of

tir own, and often astonish its by their fecundity and their power. Simetimes, as might be expected, they are a little rough and uncouth

metimes they grate on the sthetic sense by their deliberate disdain of sty ; but they never fail for want of strength. The beat of them e hot from excited brains, and ate written by those who have an al and vivid experience of what modern warfare means, who knoss squalor and its hideousness, and yet are able to throw round it

a of forlorn fascination and charm, thanks to the energy of tic'
