DIES IRAE

TO THE GERMAN KAISER

AMAZING Monarch! who at various times,

Posing as Europe's self-appointed saviour, Afforded copy for our ribald rhymes By your behaviour;

We nursed no malice; nay, we thanked you much

Because your head-piece, swollen like a tumour, Lent to a dullish world the needed touch Of saving humour.

What with your wardrobes stuffed with warrior gear,

Your gander-step parades, your prancing Prussians, Your menaces that shocked the deafened sphere With rude concussions;

Your fist that turned the pinkest rivals pale

Alike with sceptre, chisel, pen or palette, And could at any moment, gloved in mail, Smite like a mallet; 68

Master of all the Arts, and, what was more,

Lord of the limelight blaze that let us know it

You seemed a gift designed on purpose for The flippant poet.

Time passed and put to these old jests an end;

Into our open hearts you found admission,

Ate of our bread and pledged us like a friend Above suspicion.

You shared our griefs with seeming-gentle eyes;

You moved among us cousinly entreated;

Still hiding, under that fair outward guise, A heart that cheated.

And now the mask is down, and forth you stand

Known for a King whose word is no great matter,

A traitor proved, for every honest hand To strike and shatter.

This was the "Day "foretold by yours and you

In whispers here, and there with beery clamours

You and your rat-hole spies and blustering crew Of loud Potsdamers.
And lo, there dawns another, swift and stern,

When on the wheels of wrath, by justice' token, Breaker of God's own Peace, you shall in turn Yourself be broken.

SIR OWEN SEAMAN Punch, Auusi 19, 1914

TO WOMEN

YOUR hearts are lifted up, your hearts That have foreknown the utter price, Your hearts burn upward as a flame Of splendour and of sacrifice.

For you, you too to battle go, Not with the marching drums and cheers, But in the watch of solitude And through the boundless night of fears.

Swift, swifter than those hawks of war, Those threatening wings that pulse the air, Far as the vanward ranks are set, You are gone before them, you are there!

And not a shot comes blind with death, And not a stab of steel is pressed Home, but invisibly it tore And entered first a woman's breast.

71
Amid the thunder of the guns, The lightning of the lance and sword, Your hope, your dread, your throbbing pride, Your infinite passion is outpoured

From hearts that are as one high heart Withholding naught from doom and bale, Burningly offered up-to bleed, To bear, to break, but not to fail.

LAURENCE BINYON Times, August 20, 1914

TOWARDS THE LIGHT

ONCE o'er those downs wild beacons blazed, Weird messengers of fate and fight, Size was not wild, dismayed, or dazed, But calmly looked towards the lightTowards the light that springs from night,

As sure as courage springs from faith.

So now, when like some hideous wraith War mocks, with bodings from the dead, Our moonlit harvests, swathe on swathe,

May she, dear England, lift her head Towards the light, towards the lightPraying that God defend the right.

WALTER SICHEL

Westminster Gazelle, August 10, 1914
ROLL UP!

"ROLL U the map of Europe!"

The German Kaiser cried,

"For I'm the new Napoleon,

An' England's 'ands are tied."

But another sort o' rollin' up

Is comin' into play

"Roll up! Roll up!" sez Kitchener,

An' we're rollin' up all day.

'E thought, did Kaiser William, That England would stand by,

While 'e an' 'is five million

Were crushin' 'er ally.

For they 'aven't got the men," 'e said,

"To fight acrost the seas."

"Roll up! Roll up!" sez Kitchener,

"New Army, forward, please!"

Yes, 'e wants a Second Army

'E's goin' to get it, too;

For we know the man that calls us,

An' we trust 'im thro' and thro'.

If K. should need a million men,

'E's only got to say

"Roll up for King and Country!"

An' they'll roll u rig/it away.

An' while we do our part 'ere, We'll think with love an' pride

Of our comrades now a-rallyin'

Acrost the oceans wide.

For East an' West an' furthest South

They hear K.'s call resound

"Roll up! Roll up for England!"

An' they're rollin' up all round.

W. M. L HUTCHINSON

Fall Mall Gazelle, August 20, 1914
NOT for passion or for power,

Clean of hands, and calm of soul, England at this awful hour

Bids her battle-thunders roll,

That crown'd arrogance may quail

And brute-force be backward hurledLest the hypocrite prevail,

Lest a lie should win the world;

Lest she see the trustful weak

Trampled by the perjured strongThather arm may help to wreak

Justice on red-handed wrong,

Till the hierophants of fear

Cease, beneath the darkened sun, To boom out in Europe's ear

The grim gospel of the gun.

76

So, to meet yon myriad host As we muster, land by land, Witness Heaven-no braggart boast

That for righteousness we stand!

In the dread impending hour Heedful of that warning word, Not by might, and not by power

By my Spirit,' saith the Lord."

JAMES RHOADES

Timc, 21, 1914
TO THE BRITISH ARMY

BRITISH soldiers, once again Ye are marshalled on the plain By our fathers' blood renowned; Ye are treading sacred ground! Hearken, hearken as ye pass To the voices in the grass! On the Belgian soil it waves O'er the lone, unnumbered graves Where immortal warriors lie, Devotees of Liberty, Nobly fallen in the fray. Ramillies and Malplaquet, Quatre Bras and Waterloo Yield their legions up to you!

British soldiers, ye will fight 'Neath the banner of the Right: Ye are holding in your hands Liberty of little lands,

78

Seeking nothing, giving all, Answering to Honour's call, Stay Aggression's grim attack Hurl the impious menace back Devotees of Liberty, Ride ye now to victory! We in England watch and pray Ramillies and Malpiaquet, Quatre Bras and Waterloo Yield their soul to strengthen you!

R, GORELL BARNES

Times, August 22, 59t4
REDEMPTION

As though Youth had not all the best, this day Offers him one excelling best-of-all,The glorious summons of a trumpet-call

To prove his manhood in man's noblest fray;

To be with those who fight at last to slay That ancient despot, War. Whate'er befall, His is a prize so rich as to forestall

The invidious years and venom of decay.

No fruitless age shall he regret who pays Thus timely his arrears to Motherland And humankind, ensuing Earth's desire;

Who stakes his else immemorable days And wins his life back, holy from Death's hand, Redeemed in one brief ecstasy of fire!

HAROLD E. GOAD

Times, August 26, 2924

Heirs of an immortal nan Strike, because the danger Strike for all ye hold most dear; Plunged in combat, wheln].: Strike fo

Sons of I How the clarion trumpets sw. When, like some tempestuous Flares the oriflamme of wr: If it summon you to strife Strike for liberty

Will ye bear the eutci h& Crushing down your Common";.. Will ye not avenge the wrong Europe bath endured so long? Stay the tyranny and strife, Strike for liberty and life ?

82 F
Hark! they mutter in their sleep, All those heroes of the deepNelson, Rodney, Hawkins, Drake, All who fought for Britain's sake, Fought and died that such as we Might strike for life and liberty

Ye, who answer Honour's call To strive, to conquer, or to fallYe who call yourselves the sons Of Marlboroughs and WellingtonsClaim your heritage of strife, Strike for liberty and life.

Straining upwards to the light, Striving ever for the right, Sons of Britain, dauntless stand For God and King and Fatherland. Join the battle, face the strife, Strike for liberty and life

W. L. COURTNEY

Daily Telegraph August 27, 1914

I i1iL 1bIid LL\U .

" I rejoice with you in Wilhelm's first victor'

ficently God sup  1

the Crown Princess:

LED by God has done extremely well; You with patronizing nod Show that you approve of God. Kaiser, face a question newThis-does God approve of you?

Broken pledges, treaties torn, Your first page of war adorn; We on fouler things must look Who read further in that book, Where you did in time of war All that you in peace forswore, Where you, barbarously wise, Bade your soldiers terrorize, 83
Where you made-the deed was fineWomen screen your firing line. Villages burned down to dust, Torture, murder, bestial lust, Filth too foul for printer's ink, Crimes from which the apes would shrinkStrange the offerings that you press On the God of Righteousness!

Kaiser, when you'd decorate Sons or friends who serve your State, Not that Iron Cross bestow, But a Cross of Wood, and soSo remind the world that you Have made Calvary anew.

Kaiser, when you'd kneel in prayer Look upon your hands, and there Let that deep and awful stain From the blood of children slain Burn your very soul with shame, Till you dare not breathe that Name That now you glibly advertiseGod as one of your allies.

Impious braggart, you forget; God is not your conscript yet; You shall learn in dumb amaze That His ways are not your ways, That the mire through which you trod Is not the high white road of God,

To Whom, whichever way the combat rolls, We, fighting to the end, commend our souls.

BARRY PAIN

Times, August sI 1914
THE SHIRKER

[Suggested by Mr. Robert Blatchford's article in The Daily Mail.]

HE moors the skiff within the cooler gloom Of river-branches, unaware of doom; Cushioned he bus, and looks in faces fair, Nursing with placid hand anointed hair. It seems he scarcely can uplift the weight Of summer afternoon, far less of fate. So the young Briton, sprawling in his strength, Supports a heavy Sabbath at full length, Till sinks the sun on more than that sweet river, Perhaps upon our day goes down for ever. But though that orb may on an Empire set, Tomlinson lights another cigarette.

STEPHEN PHILLIPS Duly Mail, August 30, 1914

GHOSTS AT BOULOGNE

ONE dreamer, when our English soldiers trod But yesterday the welcoming fields of France, Saw war-gaunt shadows gathering stare askance Upon those levies and that alien sodSaw Churchill's smile, and Wellington's curt n Saw Harry with his Crispins, Chandos' lanc And the Edwards on whose breasts the leopr Then heard a gust of ghostly thanks to Cr: That the most famous quarrel of all time In the most famous friendship ends at la Such flame of friendship as God fans to A sword to strike the Dragon of the Slim Bidding St. Denis with St. George stand Against the Worm. St. Denis and St. Gecr .

N "J
TO THE BELGIANS

FROM ENGLAND

O MEN of mickle heart and little speech, Slow, stubborn countrymen of heath and plain, Now have ye shown these insolent again That which to Caesar's legions ye could teach, That slowprovok'd is long-provok'd. May each Crass Caesar learn this of the Keltic grain, Until at last they reckon it in vain To browbeat us who hold the Western reach. For even as you, so we are, ill to rouse, Rooted in Custom, Order, Church and King; And as you fight for their sake, so shall we, Stubbornly, inch by inch, and house by house; Seeing for us, too, there's a dearer thing Than land or blood-and that thing Liberty.

MAURICE HEWLETT Westminster Gazette, September 9, 1914

SONG OF THE SOLDIERS

WHAT of the faith and fire within us Men who march away Ere the barn-cocks say Night is growing gray, To hazards whence no tears can win us; What of the faith and fire within us Men who march away?

Is it a purblind prank, 0 think you, Friend with the musing eye Who watch us stepping by, With doubt and dolorous sigh?

Can much pondering so hoodwink you! Is it a purblind prank, 0 think you, Friend with the musing eye?

Nay. We see well what we are doing, Though some may not seeDalliers as they be!

England's need are we; 89
Her distress would leave us rueing: Nay. We see well what we are doing, Though some may not see!

In our heart of hearts believing Victory crowns the just, And that braggarts must Surely bite the dust, Press we to the field ungrieving, In our heart of hearts believing Victory crowns the just.

Hence the faith and fire within us Men who march away Ere the barn-cocks say Night is growing gray, To hazards whence no tears can win us; Hence the faith and fire within us Men who march away.

THOMAS HARDY Times, September 9, 1914

A CAP TO FIT THE KAISER

Iinpicr, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer, 7ura neget sibi na/a, ni/ill non arroget armis.

(ARS POE TICA 12)

EAGER, implacable, untired, By pride and anger quickly fired, He laughs at laws and plighted word, His sole arbitrament the sword.

THE BISHOP OF LINCOLN
"FOR ALL WE HAVE AND ARE

FOR all we have and are, For all our children's fate, Stand up and meet the war. The Hun is at the gate Our world has passed away In wantonness o'erthrown. There is nothing left to-day But steel and fire and stone.

Though all we knew depart, The old commandments stand: "In courage keep your heart, In strength lift up your hand."

Once more we hear the word That sickened earth of old "No law except the sword Unsheathed and uncontrolled."

92

Once more it knits mankii, Once more the nations g,-, To meet and break and 1:

, - - - - - -

The ages' slow-bought gain They shrivelled in a night, Only ourselves remain To face the naked days In silent fortitude Through perils and dismays Renewed and re-renewed. Though all we made depart The old commandments stand: In patience keep your heart, In strength lift up your hand."

No easy hopes or lies Shall bring us to our goal, But iron sacrifice Of body, will, and soul.
There is but one task for allFor each one life to give. Who stands if freedom fall? Who dies if England live?

RUDYARD KIPLING Times Sgl5lember 2, 1914

THE BATTLE OF THE BIGHT

HAD I the fabled herb

That brought to life the dead, Whom would I dare disturb

In his eternal bed? Great Grenville would I wake, And with glad tidings make The soul of mighty Drake

Heave up a glorying head.

As rose the misty sun,

Our men the North Sea scanned, And each rejoicing gun

Welcomed a Foe at hand, And thundering its delight, Opened its mouth outright, And bit them in the Bight,

The Bight of Helgoland.

95
With Captains who could each Do aught but yield or flee; With guns that spake the speech Shall keep this Kingdom free; We hammered to their doom Four Giants mid the gloom, And one to a fiercer tomb

Sent blazing down the sea.

Sleep on, 0 Drake, sleep well,

In days not wholly dire! Grenville, whom nought could quell, Unquenched is still thy fire. And thou that hadst no peer, Nelson I thou need'st not fear: Thy sons and heirs are here,

Nor shall they shame their sire.

WILLIAM WATSON Times
