ebication

"And poets shall dawn in pearl and gold of speech to crown his deeds"

To the memory of Alan Seeger, our soldierpoet, who met death in July, 1916, fighting for the high cause to which now all America is consecrated, we dedicate this offering for the American Red Cross.

One of the rich heritages of this war will be its golden treasury of song, so full of the vision that soars above the battle to the spiritual gleam that crowns the darkness. Nobly and tenderly the poets have glorified the sacrifice of those who have gone down into the night to rise as stars in the skies of Freedom.

The singers of the war have also shared its fires. Many from afar have faced the great guns in imagination, and commemorated the fiery conflict with brain and heart. Others, like America's Alan Seeger and England's Rupert Brooke, have in reality entered the fields of battle and given not only the poet's vision and the poet's dream, but the soldier's life - a life most rich and joyous when offering the supreme sacrifice for the cause of the soldier's heart.

R.A.L.

Grateful acknowledgment is expressed to the authors and publishers who have permitted the use of their verses in this calendar. The deepest appreciation is also accorded to Mr. R. Weir Crouch for his design of the cover-page and border, symbolic of our victorious war and future peace.
THE VISION OF PEACE

0, beautiful Vision of Peace,

Beam bright in the eyes of Man!

The host of the meek shall increase,

The Prophets are leading the van.

Have courage: we see the Morn!

Never fear, tho' the Now be dark!

Out of Night the Day is born;

The Fire shall live from the spark.

It may take a thousand years

Ere the Era of Peace hold sway,

Look back and the Progress cheers

And a thousand years are a day!

The World grows-yet not by chance;

It follows some marvelous plan;

Tho' slow to our wish the advance,

God rules the training of Man.

The Christian Register. -Nathan Haskell Dole.
THE. TRUMPET-CALL

* * * *

Trumpeter, sound for the last Crusade! Sound for the fire of the red-cross kings,

Sound for the passion, the splendour, the pity

That swept the world for a dead Man's sake, Sound, till the answering trumpet rings

Clear from the heights of the holy City,

Sound till the lions of England awake,

Sound for the tomb that our lives have betrayed;

O'er broken shrine and abandoned wall, Trumpeter, sound the great recall,

Trumpeter, rally us, rally us, rally us; Sound for the last Crusade!

Trumpeter, sound for the splendour of God!

Sound the music whose name is law,

Whose service is perfect freedom still,

The order august that rules the stars. Bid the anarchs of night withdraw,

Too long the destroyers have worked their will,

Sound for the last, the last of the wars.

Sound for the heights that our fathers trod,

When truth was truth and love was love, With a hell beneath, but a heaven above,

Trumpeter, rally us, up to the heights of it! Sound for the City of God. The Lord of Misrule. Alfred Noyes. (Frederick 4. Stokes Co.)
FRANCE

Half artist and half anchorite,

Part siren and part Socrates,

Her face-alluring fair, yet recondite

Smiled through her salons and academies.

Lightly she wore her double mask,

Till sudden, at war's kindling spark,

Her inmost self, in shining mail and casque,

Blazed to the world her single soul-Jeanne d' Arc!

-Percy Mackaye.

The Present Hour.

(The Macmillan Co.)
THE.. DEAD

I feared the lonely dead, so old were they,Decrepit, tired beings, ghastly white, With withered breasts and eyes devoid of sight, Forever mute beneath the sodden clay; I feared the lonely dead, and turned away From thoughts of sombre death and endless night; Thus, through the dismal hours I longed for light To drive my utter hopelessness away.

But now my nights are filled with flowered dreams Of singing warriors, beautiful and young; Strong men and boys within whose eyes there gleams The triumph song of worlds unknown, unsung; Grim death has vanished, leaving in its stead The shining glory of the living dead.

The AtlanicMonthly. -Sigourney Thayer.
THE SWORD OF LAFAYETTE.

(Inscribed to Raymond Poincaré, President of the French Republic)

It was the time of our despair, When lion-hearted WashingtonThat man of patience and of prayer

Looked sadly at each rising sun. In all the freedom-breeding air,

Of hope and rescue there was none. When lo!-as down from Heaven let, There came the sword of Lafayette!

Our harbors-how they danced with light!

Our tireless bells-how they did ring! Again we girded up to fight

Not England, but her Prussian king. For here was succor, and the might

Of one great soul's imagining What wonder if our eyes be wet To see the sword of Lafayette!

Upon the walls where justice keeps

The swords she doth most gladly save, Not one of all so deeply sleeps

Within the scabbard's honored grave But, listening for her call, it leaps,

To live again among the brave. Thank Heaven our naked blade is set Beside the sword of Lafayette!

Not his, not ours, the brutal strife,

The vulgar greed of soil or dross; The feet that follow drum and fife

Shall tread to nobler gain or loss. 'Tis for the holiness of life

The Spirit calls us to the Cross. Forget us, God, if we forget The sacred sword of Lafayette!

-Robert Underwood Johncon, By permission from forthcoming 2nd Ed. "Poems of War and Peace."
TO PEACE.

The cup, the ruby cup

Whence anguish drips,

At last is lifted up

Against our lips.

Though we, till seas run dry,

Your lovers are,

How can we put it by,

Red cup of war?

We champion your task;

Your wounds we bind;

Behind the battle-mask

Our eyes are kind.

Over this foaming edge

Of blood and flame

With shuddering lips we pledge

Your name.

-Katharine Lee Bates. The New York Sun.
HOLY RUSSIA

The world shall be made new Since thou hast found thy soul. There shall be freedom for the Jew And justice for the Pole. Finland's chain shall break As breaks the ice in spring, And spirits like the birds awake That were too sad to sing.

Throughout the troubled earth Prophetic tremors runIt is the travail of the birth Of Freedom's youngest son. Dreams that have been as dead Rise glorious from their grave As throb to a deliverer's tread The pulses of the slave.

Torch of the Holy Fires, Lead us along thy way Up to the vision of our sires That we have cloaked with clay! Humbly we yield to thee The glory of the van. Lead on, where calls through liberty The brotherhood of man!

The Outlook. -4melia Josephine Burr.
THE CALL

Hark! 'Tis the rush of the horses, The crash of the galloping gun! The stars are out of their courses; The hour of doom has begun. Leap from thy scabbard, 0 sword! This is the Day of the Lord!

* * * * *  *

Oh, but the thrill and the splendor, The sudden new knowledge-I can! To fawn on no hireling defender,

But fight one's own fight as a man!

* * * * *  *

Who hath a soul that will glow not, Set face to face with the foe?

"Is life worth living?"-I know not: Death is worth dying, I know.

The Spectator. -F. W. Bourdillon.
AMERICA RESURGENT

She is risen from the dead! Loose the tongue and lift the head;

Let the sons of light rejoice. She has heard the challenge clear; She has answered, "I am here";

She has made the stainless choice.

Bound with iron and with goldBut her limbs they could not hold

When the word of words was spoken; Freedom callsThe prison walls

Tumble, and the bolts are broken!

Hail her! She is ours againHope and heart of harassed men

And the tyrants' doom and terror. Send abroad the old alarms; Call to arms, to arms, to arms

Hands of doubt and feet of error!

Cheer her! She is free at last, With her back upon the past,

With her feet upon the bars. Hosts of freedom sorely prest, Lo, a light is in the west

And a helmet full of stars!

Washington Evening Sear. -Wendell Phillips Stafford.
AMERICA, TO ARMS!

She stands, a guardian of the endless sea,

Her garb is golden, and her lips are flame,

She is the portal of Eternity

And Beauty is the realm from whence she came!

She is the voice of many bleeding lands

America, she calls! To Arms! Arise!

For like a shimmering sabre in the skies

In scarlet glow she stands A guardian of the earth and sea

LIBERTY!

-Blanche Shoemaker Wagstaff.

Fifes and Drums.

(George H. Doran Co.)
THE LARK

From wrath-red dawn to wrath-red dawn, The guns have brayed without abate; And now the sick sun looks upon The bleared, blood-boltered fields of hate As if it loathed to rise again. How strange the hush! Yet sudden, hark! From yon down-trodden gold of grain. The leaping rapture of a lark.

A fusillade of melody, That sprays us from yon trench of sky; A new amazing enemy We cannot silence though we try; A battery on radiant wings, That from yon gap of golden fleece Hurls at us hopes of such strange things As joy and home and love and peace.

Pure heart of song! do you not know That we are making earth a hell? Or is it that you try to show Life still is joy and all is well? Brave little wings! Ah, not in vain You beat into that bit of blue: Lo! we who pant in war's red rain Lift shining eyes, see Heaven too.

Rhymes of a Red Cross Man. -Robert W. Service. (c. 1916, by Barse & Hopkins.)
THE STARS AND STRIPES

We who in the old days-the easy days of pleasuring

Loitered in the distant lands-we know the thrill that came

When in far, foreign places, above the stranger faces,

The sight of it, the might of it, would wake us like a flame.

Our own flag, the one flag, it stirred our blood to claim.

We who in these new days-these days of all confusion

Look upon it with the eyes of one long blind who sees.

We know at last its beauty-its magnitude of duty

Dear God! if thus it seems to us, what will it mean to those

Who stay for it, who pray for it, our kindred over seas?

These who face the red days-the white nights of fury,

Where death like some mad reaper hacks down the living grain

They shall see our flag arise like a glory in the skies

The stars of it, the bars of it, that prove it once again

The new flag, the true flag, that does not come in vain!

Fifes and Drums.  -Theodosia Garrison.

(George H. Doran Co.)
THE. VIGIL

Like some young squire who watched his armor bright, Kneeling upon the chapel floor all nightWhere glimmering candles on the altar glowed, And moonlight through the Gothic windows flowedAnd prayed, with folded hands, that God would bless His sword, and keep him pure, and give successSo, kneeling, Lord, beneath Thine altar light, The nation asks for help before the fight.

Grant us the prayer of that boy Knight of oldFaith to be steadfast, courage to be bold. Such passionate love toward the dear flag we fly That each who serves it holds its honor highSimple, large gifts that soldiers need, 0 Lord, Grant the young nation for its unsheathed sword.

And for our captains in the perilous way, A vision widened to an unknown day. We keep our vigil; send tomorrow glorious; Let not God's will go down; bring right victorious. Kneeling in prayer before Thine altar light, The nation asks Thy help to fight Thy fight.

New York Times. -Mary Raymond Shipinan Andrews.
OUR COUNTRY

After allOne country, brethren! We must rise or fall The makers of immortalityHer freedom, fame, Her glory or her shame, Liegemen to God and fathers of the free!

After allHark! from the heights the clear, strong clarion call And the command imperious: "Stand forth, Sons of the South and Brothers of the North! Stand forth and be As one on soil and seaYour country's honor more than empire's worth!"

After all'Tis Freedom wears the loveliest coronal; Her brow is to the morning; in the sod She breathes the breath of patriots; every clod Answers her call And rises like a wall Against the foes of liberty and God!

-Frank L. Stanton.
"THE POET OF THE. FOREIGN LEGION"

Alan Seeger, American soldier-poet, killed in action at IJelloy-enSanterre, France, July 4th, 1916.

* * * * * *

Lo! he is gone; star-crowned and clean of tears, With Fame's immortal blossoms on his hair. He met Death's kiss; tonight the fields are fair In peace-lit Avalon where poets rest, And he is latest guest. Young Keats is with him-silver fountains play A tender threnody for men of earth Whose eyes are sealed with darkness, and whose birth Foreshadows pain and grief and deep despair, Yea, everywhere.

Scatter ye roses-skyey trophies bring, And let the night be shattered with your cheers For him whose sacrifice outlives the years; The seeds of whose proud songs Shall work to right Earth's federated wrongs, By flowering to a mighty harvesting. Song wed to Chivalry and twined with Love Of Liberty that sheds a sacred flame, Enshrines his mem'ry bright as stars above, And glorifies his name.

New York Times. -J. Corson Miller.
"BUTTADEUS"

(The Peace of God)

Brothers, believe this truth; that whoso prays As prayed the Master; whoso fashions his heart By wonder and worship and immortal dreams To a gift meet for Godhead; whoso yearns To lose his self in Self's infinitudeThe pure Shechinah in his soul shall dwell As in the Master's. And every man on earth May live as he, wrapt in the Spirit Divine, The Fatherhood whose sons are all that love; And, living so, shall year by happy year, And life by life, and light by mystic light, Up to the mount of self's last Calvary, Know that which passeth understanding-Peace! Vast, palpitating, breathed and breathing-Peace!

Hate wrong! Slay wrong! else mercy, justice, truth, Freedom and faith, shall die for humankindSlay! that His Law may live! But, having slain, O seek the quiet places in your souls, The lonely shore of your Gennesaret, Your Mount of Olives, your Gethsemane, Where waits the Peace of God.

The Forum. -William Samuel Johnson.
LIIGE

Betwixt the Foe and France was sheFrance the immortal, France the free. The Foe, like one vast living sea, Drew nigh. He dreamed that none his tide would stay; But when he bade her to make way, She, through her cannon, answered, "Nay, Not I."

No tremor and no fear she showed; She held the pass, she barred the road, While Death's unsleeping feet bestrode The ground. So long as deeds of noblest worth Are sung with joy, and tears, and mirth, Her glory shall to the ends of the Earth Resound.

Watched by a world that yearned to aid, Lonely she stood but undismayed. Resplendent was the part she played, And pure. Praised be her heroes, proud her sons! She threw her soul into the guns, Her name shall, with the loveliest ones, Endure.

The Man Who Saw, and Other Poems Arising out of the War. (harper E9 Brothers,)

-William Watson.
BETTER TO DIE

Better to die, where gallant men are dying,

Than to live on with them that basely fly;

Better to fall, the soulless Fates defying, Than unassailed to wander vainly, trying

To turn one's face from an accusing sky!

Days matter not, nor years to the undaunted;

To live is nothing,-but to nobly live!

The poorest visions of the honor-haunted Are better worth than pleasure-masks enchanted,

And they win life who life for others give.

The planets in their watchful course behold them

To live is nothing,-but to nobly live!

For though the Earth with mother-hands remold them, Though Ocean in his billowy arms enfold them,

They are as gods, who life to others give!

Pro Pairia. -Florence Earle Coaxes.
GERMANY

o land of music and of dream, Your songs are dead!

o morning-rose, 0 twilight-gleam, Forever fled!

Now, through your thunder-cloud of wrath, We see but frenzy's aftermath

Stark ruin following every path Your legions tread.

Was this your dream-a baleful light In stormy space?

Your soul-a threatening shape of blight, With hate-wrung face?

What madness moves you to rejoice

In women's woe-in terror's voice?

Is this the music of your choice, Your song of grace?

Now from your shattered flutes we hear A long, harsh cry,

The note of passion and of fear, That will not die:

And ever, on the desolate sea, Your shamed and haunted ships must flee

Child-faces, floating silently Under God's sky.

New York Times. -Marion Couihouy Smith.
THE GERMAN-AMERICAN

Honor to him whose very blood remembers The old, enchanted dream-song of the Rhine, Although his house of life is fair with shine

Of fires new-kindled on the buried embers;

Whose heart is wistful for the flowers he tended Beside his mother, for the carven gnome And climbing bear and cuckoo-clock of home,

For the whispering forest path two lovers wended;

Who none the less, still strange in speech and manner, With our young Freedom keeps his plighted faith, Sides with his children's hope against the wraith Of his own childhood, hails the Starry Banner

As emblem of his country now, to-morrow; A patriot by duty, not by birth. The costliest loyalty has purest worth.

Honor to him who draws the sword in sorrow!

Fifes and Drums.  -Katharine Lee Bates.

(George H. Doran Co.)
J

THE. ROAD TO FRANCE.

Thank God, our liberating lance Goes flaming on the way to France!

* * * * * *  *

To France-with every race and breed That hates Oppression's brutal creed!

* * * * * *  *

At last, thank God! At last, we see There is no tribal Liberty! No beacon lighting just our shores, No Freedom guarding but our doors. The flame she kindled for our sires Burns now in Europe's battle-fires. [ The soul that led our fathers west Turns back to free the world's opprest.

Allies, you have not called in vain; We share your conflict and your pain.

"Old Glory" through new stains and rents, Partakes of Freedom's sacraments. Into that hell his will creates We drive the foe-his lusts-his hates. Last come, we will be last to stay, Till right has had her crowning day. Replenish, comrades, from our veins The blood, the sword of despot drains And make our eager sacrifice Part of the freely rendered price You pay to lift humanityYou pay to make our brothers free. See, with what proud hearts we advance To France! National Arts Club's -Daniel M. henderson. Prize War Poem.
A WOMAN OF PARIS

(September, 1914)

Retreating toward the Marne, his regiment

Would pass at morn a neighboring suburb through; And thither walked his glad young wife, intent

To see her soldier, strong and brave and true; And in her arms, or pattering with light feet

Beside her steps, she held her baby boy0 the proud moment when his eyes should greet

Their little Victor brimming o'er with joy!

Upon the curb she stood as past they filed,

When something barred the way and, unawares, The march a moment stayed; then wife and child

Saw, in the line, the father's friend, and theirsAnd springing from the ranks, he seized her arm "Courage, courage, Madame! Your husband fell Yesterday, by my side, at Maux. Ah, well . . Ah, well . her eyelids closed, her heart stood still . What joy henceforth can wile, what grief can harm! Then swift above her head, with deathless will, She raised her boy, presenting him, and cried For all her anguish, "Vive la France!" A thrill Ran through the throng, and with the line's advance Cheers filled the morning sky for her and France As if no soldier in his place had died! For France, secure, invincible, immortal, While women such as she are at its portal!

The Glory of Toil. -Edna Dean Proctor. (Houghton-2lfsfflin Co.)
THE SMILE OF RHEIMS

j "The Smile," they called Iter-"LaSourire"; andfair

A sculptured angel on the northern door Of the Cathedral's west façade-she wore Through the long centuries of toil and care That smile, mysteriously wrought and rare, As if she saw brave visions evermore

Kings, and an armored Maid who lilies bore, And all the glories that had once been there.

How like to thee, her undefeated Land!

Wounded by bursting shells, a little space

Broken she lay beneath her ancient portal; But lifted from the earth with trembling hand,

Victorious, still glowed upon her face,

Thy smile, heroic France, love-given and im

mortal! The Bellman. -Florence Earle Coates.
TI-IF. RECRUIT

Through all the anguish of those days

The haunting horror and the woe,

One thing can set my heart ablaze,

My memory aglow.

It is his look just as he turned

After the last goodbye was said.

A look as though for him there burned

A beacon light ahead.

As though he saw what we see not

Past this dark world's horizon rim.

A faith, a hope, by us uncaught,

That swung to range for him.

As though his spirit winged had flown

Past stormy seas, on some far quest.

And, like a bird, had found its own

Hid in a quiet nest.

-Helen A. Saxon. Youth's Companion.
INDIAN SUMMER

This is the sign!

This flooding splendour, golden and hyaline, This sun a golden sea on hill and plain,That God forgets not, that He walks with men. His smile is on the mountain and the pool And all the fairy lakes are beautiful.

This is the word!

That makes a thing of flame the water-bird. This mercy of His fulfilled in the magical Clear glow of skies from dawn to evenfall, Telling His Hand is over us, that we Are not delivered to the insatiable sea.

This is the pledge!

The promise writ in gold to the water's edge: His bow's in Heaven and the great floods are over. Oh, broken hearts, lift up! The Immortal Lover Embraces, comforts with the enlivening sun, The sun He bids stand still till the day is won.

From The Flower of Youth. -Katharine Tynan. (Sidgwick & Jackson, Ltd.)
EDITH CAVELL

The world hath its own dead; great motions start In human breasts, and make for them a place In that hushed sanctuary of the race Where every day men come, kneel, and depart. Of them, 0 English nurse, henceforth thou art, A name to pray on, and to all a face Of household consecration; such His grace Whose universal dwelling is the heart.

O gentle hands that soothed the soldier's brow, And knew no service save of Christ the Lord! Thy country now is all humanity! How like a flower thy womanhood doth show In the harsh scything of the German sword, And beautifies the world that saw it die!

By permission from -George Edward Woodberry. Scribner's Magazine and Anthology of Magazine Verse.
SONG OF THE BELGIANS

Reek not that your wounds are bleeding,

Reck not that your voice is weak:

Louder than the roar of cannon,

Higher than the battle-shriek,

Sing, my countrymen, the story

Of the fields we have not won,

Fields of failure but of glory,

'Neath this fair autumnal sun:

Sing how, when the tempter whispered, "Buy your safety with your shame," Said we, "Sooner no dishonor

Shall defile the Belgian name!"

* * * * *  *

Reck not that your wounds are bleeding,

Reek not that your voice is weak:

Deeper than the roar of cannon,

Higher than the battle-shriek,

E'en altho your wounds are bleeding,

E'en altho your heart-strings break,

Sing of hope and hate unshaken,

'Neath this fair autumnal sun:

Sing how, when the tempter whispered, "Sweet is vengeance, when 'tis done," Said we louder, "We are prouder

Mercy's garland to have won!"

War Poems and Other -Emile CammaerLc.

Translations by Lord Curzon of Kedleston. (John Lane Co.)

- -
"L'ENVOI"

* * * * * * * * * *  *

Oh spacious days of glory and of grieving!

Oh sounding hours of lustre and of loss!

Let us be glad we lived you, still believing

The God who gave the cannon gave the Cross.

Let us be sure amid these seething passions, The lusts of blood and hate our souls abhor, The Power that Order out of Chaos fashions Smites fiercest in the wrath-red forge of War . . . Have faith! Fight on! Amid the battle-hell

Love triumphs, Freedom beacons, all is well.

-Robert W. Service.

Rhymes of a Red Cross Man.

(c. 1916, Barse & Hopkins)
THE WINDS OF GOD

Across the azure spaces, Athwart the vasts of sky, With winnowings of mighty wings

The winds of God go by.

Above the meres and mountains,

With unseen sandals shod, Above the plains, with choric strains,

Sweep by the winds of God.

"Peace! in His name!" they murmur;

"Peace-in His name!" they cryOh, men, give ear! do ye not hear

The winds of God go by?

The Vale of Shadows. -Clinton Scollard. (Laurence J. Gomme.)
CHRISTMAS EVE, 1914

Silent, to-night, o'er Judah's hills

Bend low the angel throng,

No heavenly music fills the air

Exultantly with song;

Yet, close above the sin-scarred earth,

Broods still the Love Divine,

And through the darkness, as of old,

The stars of pity shine.

Silent, to-night, is Bethlehem:

Along the hushed ways

No eager feet of worshippers,

No melodies of praise;

Yet, in the quietness that fills

The waiting hearts of men,

The ancient miracle of hope

Is wrought, to-night, again.

O holy Christ! to whom, of old,

The wondering shepherds came,

The light they sought with flaming joy

We seek in contrite shame;

And though men strive, we dare to hope

That Thou again art born,

For, through the night of our despair,

Behold! Thy star of morn!

Frederick M. Eliot.
