"ODE."
I.
On that long day when England held her breath,
Suddenly gripped at heart 
And called to choose her part
Between her loyal soul and luring sophistries,
We watched the wide, green-bosomed land beneath
Driven and tumultuous skies;
We watched the volley of white shower after shower
Desolate with fierce drops the fallen flower;
And still the rain's retreat
Drew glory on its track,
And still, when all was darkness and defeat,
Upon dissolving cloud the bow of peace shone back.
So in our hearts was alternating beat,
With every dread elate;
And Earth dyed all her day in colours of our fate.

II.
But, oh, how faint the image we foretold 
In fancies of our fear 
Now that the truth is here
And we awake from dream, yet think it still a dream.
It bursts our thoughts with more than thought can hold;
And more than human seem 
These agonies of conflict; Elements 
At war! yet not with vast indifference 
Casually crushing; nay, 
It is as if were hurled
Lightnings that murdered, seeking out their prey;
As if an earthquake shook to chaos half the world,
Equal in purpose as in power to slay;
And thunder stunned our ears
Streaming in rain of blood on torrents that are tears.

III.
Around a planet rolls the drum's alarm.
Far where the summer smiles 
Upon the utmost isles,
Danger is treading silent as a fever-breath.
Now in the North the secret waters arm;
Under the wave is Death:
They fight in the very air, the virgin air,
Hovering on fierce wings to the onset there
Nations to battle stream;
Earth smokes and cities burn;
Heaven thickens in a storm of shells that scream;
The long lines shattering break, turn and again return;
And still across a continent they teem,
Moving in myriads; more
Than ranks of flesh and blood, but soul with soul at war!

IV.
All the hells are awake: the old serpents hiss
From dungeons of the mind;
Fury of hate born blind,
Madness and lust, despairs and treacheries unclean;
They shudder up from man's most dark abyss.
But there are heavens serene
That answer strength with strength; they stand secure;
They arm us from within, and we endure.
Now are the brave more brave, 
Now is the cause more dear,
The more the tempests of the darkness rave, 
As, when the sun goes down, the shining stars are clear.
Radiant the spirit rushes to the grave.
Glorious it is to live
In such an hour, but life is lovelier yet to give.

V.
Alas! what comfort for the uncomforted, 
Who knew no cause, nor sought 
Glory or gain? they are taught,
Homeless in homes that burn, what human hearts can bear.
The children stumble over their dear dead, 
Wandering they know not where.
And there is one who simply fights, obeys,
Tramps, till he loses count of nights and days,
Tired, mired in dust and sweat,
Far from his own hearthstone;
A common man of common earth, and yet 
The battle-winner he, a man of no renown, 
Where food for cannon pays a nation's debt.
This is Earth's hero, whom
The pride of Empire tosses careless to his doom.

VI.
Now will we speak, while we have eyes for tears
And fibres to be wrung
And in our mouths a tongue.
We will bear wrongs untold, but will not only bear;
Not only bear, but build through striving years
The answer of our prayer, That whosoever has the noble name
Of man shall not be yoked to alien shame;
That life shall be indeed 
Life, not permitted breath
Of spirits wrenched and forced to other's need,
Robbed of their nature's joy and free alone in death.
The world shall travail in that cause, shall bleed;
But deep in hope it dwells
Until the morning break which the long night foretells.

VII.
O children, filled with your own airy glee,
Or with a grief that comes 
So swift, so strange, it numbs,
If on your growing youth this page of terror bite,
Harden not then your senses, feel and be
The promise of the light.
O heirs of Man, keep in your hearts not less 
The divine torrents of his tenderness!
'Tis ever war; but rust 
Grows on the sword; the tale
Of earth is strewn with empires heaped in dust
Because they dreamed that force should punish and prevail.
The will to kindness lives beyond their lust;
Their grandeurs are undone:
Deep, deep within man's soul are all his victories won.
LAURENCE BINYON.
Fortnightly Review.


THE ROLL OF HONOUR.

YOUR faces haunt me from the

printed pages,

The roll call of our valiant English dead;

What woman's hands, I wonder, clung in parting?

What woman's heart breaks now the shot is sped ?

We speak of Glory and the Cause you died for,

We lay our homage on your bloodstained grave,

Will Glory help to ease the women's anguish

Or solace them for these dear dead they gave?

Yea, surely. For your spirits go before them,

You, who made Death a crown about your lives

And in the splendour of your souls that conquered

We learn this lesson. Blessed is he who strives,
For Love and Faith, for Truth and priceless Honour,

These cannot pass away with mortal breath,

God guards them safe, and in His mighty keeping

Are also those who nobly looked on Death!

MARGARET PETERSON,

Author O/ The Lure of the Little 14-um," Blind Eyes," " Tony Behlew," tic.

Daily Chronicle.

LITANY IN WAR-TIME.

NOW that the heavens are opened, Now that the call has come,

Now that Hell's driven legions Strike the old voices dumb;

Now that Thy hand is upon us,

Now that our trial begins,

Lord God of love as of battles

Lord, forgive us our sins!

The naked we have not clothd,

The hungry we have not fed,

The women degraded and outcast,.

The children crying for bread!

Vanity, sloth and falsehood,

Luxury, greed and fear,

Help, Lord, to cast them behind us,

Now that Thy Word is clear.

Set not our blindness before Thee!

Open our eyes to see

To see in this darkness the glory

Of Thy great peace to be!

If for our sins we must perish,

Grant us the grace, Most High

If for our sins we must perish,

Yet for this cause to die!

* * * * * * '9
High above fears and chances

Our England that is to be!

Peace upon earth, goodwill among men,

justice and Liberty.

High in the raging storm-wind

The banner of England streams:

England! our city of heart's desire,

The England of our dreams.

Thou wilt not fail that England,

Living, or dying we know.

Lord, we have nothing to fear from mischance,

Nothing to fear from the foe:

Wrapped in their own desolation,

By terror and death bestrid;

Lord, in that hour have mercy on them

Who knew not what they did.

Now that the heavens are openecj,

Now that the trump is blown,

Lord, Thou wilt search the nations,

Lord, Thou wilt know Thine own

High in the raging storm-wind

The banner of England streams:

England ! our city of heart's desire,

The England of our dreams!

J. W. ALLEN.

SOLDIER, SOLDIER.

sOLDIER, soldier, off to the war, Take me a letter to my sweetheart O.

He's gone away to France With his carbine and his lance, And a lock of brown hair of his sweetheart O.

Fair maid of London, happy may you be To know so much of your sweetheart O. There's not a handsome lad, To get the chance he's had, But would skip, with a kiss for his sweetheart O.

Soldier, soldier, whatever shall I do If the cruel Germans take my sweetheart O? They'll pen him in the jail And starve him thin and pale, With never a kind word from his sweet heart O.

Fair maid of London, is that all you see Of the lad you've taken for your sweetheart O?

21
THE WOMEN OF BELGIUM TO THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.

OH, English women! see, our coun

try's dying;

Her life-blood from her gaping wounds is sighing,

Her bitter wrongs to God for vengeance crying!

The Iron hand has struck, but in the smiting

Its own dishonour on the wall is writing,

And Belgium's funeral pyre the world is lighting.

If we had failed or shrunk before the

paying,

If we had saved our dearest from the slaying,

What price had you not paid for the delaying?

Oh, mothers! who your man-grown sons are keeping,

Oh, fathers ! to the patriot's duty, sleeping,

Oh, lovers! at the thought of parting, weeping,

Awake, and give us Men to do our Reaping!

The Queen. MARY BOOTH. 24

LE JOUR DES MORTS.

THE day of the dead, the day of the dead, Down on your knees and pray,

For the souls of the living, the souls of the dying,

The souls that have passed away.

And the great bell tolls For the treasure of souls Delivered into his hand,

Gabriel, Michael, Uriel, reap Souls as a measure of sand,

Souls from the restless deep, Souls from the blood-red land.

The day of the dead, the day of the dead, Down on your knees and pray,

For the souls of the outcast, despised and rejected, The heroes and victors to-day.

2 C:
And the great bell rings, And the great bell swings, As death makes up the number Of men's lives as grains of sand, From the decks their bodies cumber,

From the panting shivering land, From crash and shriek to slumber.

The day of the dead, the day of the dead, Up on your feet and stand

For the souls of the living, the fighting, the striving,

For the gun and the sword in hand.

And His Transfiguration

Descends on a nation, And death is a little thing,

And lives as a grain of sand. Michael, Gabriel, Uriel, bring

From the desolate blood-red land, From the tall ships foundering.

The day of the dead, the day of the dead,

Down on your knees and pray

For the souls of the living, the souls of the dying, The souls that have passed away.

FRANCES CHESTERTON.

THE MEN WHO MAN.

THE men who man our batteries,

The men who serve our guns,

They need not honeyed flatteries, For they are Britain's Sons I

They go, when Duty speeds them,

Wherever bullets fly;

Wherever England needs them,

When Duty bids, they die.

The men who man our strongholds, Or march to yonder field

Where Valour against Wrong holds

A realm that scorns to yield,

From Chiltern Hills or Grampians

May pour their living tide,

But all are England's champions

And all are England's pride.

And, lo! how the abhorrence Of sceptred crime can join

The Thames and the St. Lawrence,

The Liffey and the Boyne.

For England need but ask aid

Where'er her branches grow,

And like a leaping cascade

It thunders on the foe.
Our cheery sailors, lapt in

The maiden sea's light sleep,

From commodore and captain

To all who man the deep,

They hear around their bed nought

But echoes of their fame,

And well they man the Dreadnought

Who dread not aught but shame.

And whether calmly harboured,

Or when the rocking State

Lurches to port and starboard,

They sail the seas of Fate;

With everlasting laughter

They luff to wind and rain,

Aforetime and hereafter

The men who man the main.

The men who man Great Britain,

And fight for royal George,

On battle's anvil smitten

Leap mightier from the forge

Like oaks in Orkney's rough spring

They flourish torn and blown,

For all are Honour's offspring

And all are England's own.

The men who man this nation,

And sow her fame abroad,

They ask not acclamation,

They need not England's laud;

23

And when too late it finds them,

And falls on lifeless ears,

Where yon red tempest blinds them

They need but England's tears.

Yet, while the storm grows vaster

Around them and above,

In triumph or disaster

They shall not lack our love

They who to Glory's fanning

This streamer have unfurled,

The men whose joy is manning,

The men who man the world!

WILLIAM WATSON.

Saturday Review.
SUSPENSE.

OER oceans, lands, bend down, O

God to-day,

And as we ask,

Shield with Thy wings the many, far away;

Soothe those who watch and wait and do each task With brave hands working, while their brave lips pray.

'Tis but a little world, O God, to Thee, Who rulest all

'Tis such a little way earth-sight may see The dusk-times fall.

Across each hour, perchance-we dare not face

Such shades alone-unstrengthened! Send us Grace.

LILLIAN GARD.

The Queen.

THE NATION'S DAVID.

[Mr. Reginald Wright KauUrnan is a distinguished American novelist and journalist. Many of his works have been translated into French, Russian, Belgian, Italian, and other European languages.]

ERECT before Hell's hurricane, be

tween the Germans and the sea,

Belgium, still smiling through your pain; still, in the hour of ruin, free;

While yet the cannon's note resounds along each poplar-bordered way,

O, bleeding Belgium, to your wounds what mankind owes what man may say?

Long years, while battle camend went afar at Fate's malign caprice,

Your kindly folk, serene, content, pursued the pleasant ways of peace,

They promised, all the mighty ones: "In that calm land shall not be heard

The thunder of our angry guns "-Kaiser and King, they pledged their word.

And then, unwarning, arrogant, the cutthroat liar of Berlin

Tore into shreds his covenant: his armed hosts were swarming in
HONOUR'S UTMOST TASK.

CLEAN - STRIPPED for action

neither overbold,

Nor fearing overmuch what chance may bring

We join the lists. Let none hereafter hold

We grasped this sword for gain's sake, caste, nor king

Power-crazed to his own people's ruining!

We weighed, but stayed not counting it, our loss

In blood and tears and darkling years to be;

Appraised the instant's faith against the dross

Of gold fear-clenched in base immunity

The coward shelter of geography;

And drew for little peoples, for our word

Once given, which we hold inviolate

As these our combes, our downs, our cliffs

that heard

The vain Dons thunder at our sea-barred gate

And frowned one true Napoleon to his fate.
Battlers for world-peace, slaves of Honour's lamp,

Tending a Vestal flame which never dies,

We brook no bribe from any traitor camp

That trades, mailed fist on hilt to back its lies,

With broken pledges and with blasphemies

Wherefore, in dour purged sober earnestness,

Unfactioned, linked, ungrudging each to each,

One People welded for our Empire's stress,

We Warden Nations hie us to the breach;

Nor waste swift hours, that shout for deeds, in speech.

Our blades shall not be sheathed, our banners furled,

Till Honour's utmost task be trebly done;

Till, bright across the devastated world,

New-risen and blood-cleansed, Freedom's sun

Dawns for God's vengeance on the shattered Hun!

FRANK DANBY.

Nash's Magazine.

'6

CALLED UP!

GWE them a cheer as they march along! A life is a life, so don't mistake

There's death to meet or a name to make.

Give them a cheer!

Give them a song as they take the way I There's not a bird or a passing breeze But mingles notes in the roadside trees,, Lilt of hope is a true heartease.

Give them a song !

Give them a prayer as you watch them go. (May be lips have forgotten to pray.) For right upheld to the end of the way, For goal of peace at the set of the day,

Give them a prayer!

LILLIAN GARD.

The Queen.
A SINGSONG OF ENGLAND.

OENGLAND is an island,

The fairest ever seen;

They say men come to England To learn that grass is green.

And Englishmen are now at war,

All for this they say,

That they are free, and other men

Must be as free as they.

The Englishmen are shepherds,

They plow, they sow and reap;

Their King may wear his leopards,

His men must run their sheep.

But now the crook and reaping-hook,

The coulter and the sieve

Are thrown aside; they take the gun

That other men may live.

Some Englishmen are fishermen, And other some are miners,

And others man the shipping yards

And build the ocean liners;

But one and all will down tools

And up with gun and sword

To make a stand for Freedom

Against the War Lord.

The pretty girls of England

Are husbanding their charms,

For not a girl of them but has

A sweetheart under arms.

But not a girl of all the flock

Would call across the waves

Her sweetheart to her kindness

While other men are slaves.

There's been an English kingdom

For twice a thousand years;

Her men have plough'd and reap'd it

Thro' merriment and tears.

But never a twenty year has passed

Without some stroke's been given

For Freedom; and the land is free

As any under heaven.

The Roman and the Spaniard,

The Corsican, have tried

Their worst, and now the German

Must perish in his pride.

He may burn and thieve and slaughter,

He may scold and storm and pray;

But we shall fight till even his

Stand up freemen some day.

When he is free of Germany

And Germany of him

There'll be a chance for plain men

To get old Europe trim. 39
Then on, you sturdy English hands, And keep the colours flying,

And we'll not grudge your blessed blood If Tyranny's a-dying.

MAURICE HEWLETT.

Daily Chronicle.

THE WIFE OF FLANDERS.

OWand brown barns, thatched, and repatched and tattered,

Where I had seven sons until to-day---

A little hill of clay your spur has scattered .

This is not Paris. You have lost your way.

You, staring at your sword to find it brittle,

Surprised at the surprise that was your plan,

Who shaking and breaking barriers not a little,

Find never more the death-door of Sedan.

Must I for more than carnage call you claimant,

Paying you a penny for each son you slay?

Man, the whole globe in gold were no repayment

For what you have lost. And how shall I repay?

41
Is it not more to us than all things are?

Nay, peace is precious as the world is wide,

But England's honour is more precious far

Than all the heavens and earth.

Were honour outcast from her supreme place

Our pearl of peace no more a pearl would shine,

But, trampled under foot of dogs and swine,

Rot in the mire of a deserved disgrace.

So, for our Mother's honour, since it must, Let peace be lost, but lost the worthier way,

Not trampled down, but given, for her sake,

Who forged of many an iron yesterday

The golden song that gold-tongued Fame shall wake

When we are dust, i dust;

For life and love and death and praise and blame,

And all the world, even to our very land,

Weighed in the balance are as a grain of sand

Against the honour of the English name I E.NESBIT.

New Witness.

THE CALL.

I.

THERE was hush of the human voice,

halt of the human tread,

When an emperor's word proclaimed that the God of Love was dead;

Dead in the homes of millions, dead in the temple shrine,

Dead in the soul of nations, dead in yours and mine.

God! you strike too hard to make us fight the foe

We've 'fought and conquered in the ages long ago.

II.

Broken human hopes, shattered human thought,

As dreamland, hopeland, vanish into naught,

Tearing out the heart, hacking through the soul,

Making hell of human might marching to its goal.

God I we want new words to tell of present wrongs.

We want new music to the sadness of our songs.

47
III.

There is nothing from the church, nothing from the priest,

Gloom along the west, darkness in the east.

The wisdom of the schools, the glories of the great,

Blotted out by blood, drenched in human hate.

God! they're our defenders standing by the gun,

Dying man by man there to keep what they have won.

'V.

Torn away from loved homes to hurl the savage back,

To learn the lust of fight, the joy of the attack;

But when they throw away the sword and bring the banner home,

'Twill be enscrolled with victories won for ages yet to come.

God ! for kings and emperors there is no longer room,

The freedom they have scorned is the measure of their doom.

48

England, stand you steadfast, come along from Wales,

Scotland, send your warriors, Ireland never fails,

Britons all beyond the seas, answer to the call

To fight for freedom, to conquer for us all.

LAURENCE GOMME.

Daily Chronicle.
This was the "Day" foretold by yours and you

In whispers here, and there with beery clamours

You and your rat-hole spies and blustering crew

Of loud Potsdamers.

And, lo! there dawns another, swift and stern,

When on the wheels of wrath, by justice' token,

Breaker of God's own Peace, you shall in turn

Yourself be broken.

OWEN SEAMAN.

Punch.

THE AVENGERS

To our Soldiers in the Field.

NOT only that your cause is just and

right

This much was never doubted; war or play,

We go with clean hands into any fight;

That is our English way;

Not this lflgh thought alone shall brace your thews

To trample under heel those Vandal hordes

Who laugh when blood of mother and babe imbrues

Their damnd craven swords.

But here must be hot passion, white of flame,

Pure hate of this unutterable wrong,

Sheer wrath for Christendom so sunk in shame,

To make you trebly strong.

55
These smoking hearths of fair and peaceful lands,

This reeking trail of deeds abhorred of Hell,

They cry aloud for vengeance at your hands,

Ruthless and swift and fell.

Strike, then-and spare not-for the innocent dead

Who lie there, stark beneath the weeping skies,

As though you saw your dearest in their stead

Butchered before your eyes.

And though the guiltless pay for others' guilt

Who preached these brute ideals in camp and Court;

Though lives of brave and gentle foes be spilt,

That loathe this coward sport;

On each, without distinction, worst or best

Fouled by a nation's crime, one doom must fall;

Be you its instrument, and leave the rest

To God, the judge of all.

56

Let it be said of you, when sounds at length Over the final field the victor's strain :

"They struck at infamy with all their strength,

And earth is clean again!

OWEN SEAMAN.

Punch.
DIRAE FACES.

THE Flemish Carillon towers are

cracked and scorched

As Hell's red fury round them flames and hails;

Into Ancona the drowned fisher lads

From the Adriatic wrapped in sheets and sails

They bring from their mined boats; the carnage grows

Till the earth shudders and all Europe wails.

Everywhere is the rustle of Death's wings.

To the mad despot as he cowers and quails

Appear the direful faces that portend

The imminent doom of Kaisers and of Kings;

And the Hohenzollern's fated shameful end

As the divine and popular will prevails;

And loaded with the curses of mankind

They sink into the Bloody sea, and all help fails.

R. L. GALES.

Daily News.
TO WILHELM II.

YOU sowed the seas with death and

filled the world with weeping,

You whose pride was glutted with a; unmeasured pain,

You who fired on drowning lads, threw bombs on children sleeping,

You who wrecked the Rose of Rheims, you who sacked Louvain;

Caitiff, you shall see ere your vile day is ended,

Springing from the blood of those unnumbered slain

Europe's one Republic rise serene and splendid,

Happy lands and holy seas from Russia unto Spain

R. L. GALES.

Daily News.
FOUR THINGS I ASK.

FOUR things, Almighty God, I ask For England in her awful task.

The passionate heart of one who fights, Compassionate even when she smites.

Set lips, and close, from which shall fall Speech, grave and pure, if speech at all.

Hands bloody-since it must be !-seen, By Thee, indubitably clean.

Eyes, which though dimmed with blood, or tear, Or the dark shadow itself, see clear.

Four things I ask: four things and one

The mind that was in Christ Thy Son.

So well equipped shall England stand, Arisen again at Heaven's command.

So view her from Thy seat above, God I full of noble wrath-and love.

G. H. LEONARD.

British Weekly.

6o

THE PEOPLE'S GIFT.

I N days of old a tale was told of a people noted for thrift,

Who on an occasion of jubilation would give their King a gift:

Said they, " For his share let each prepare to contribute a flask of wine

Which he will pour in a common storea barrel of vast design."

Great staves they cut for a mighty butt, and fashioned it high and wide,

And laid it along on gantrees strong, and set a ladder beside

Then, one by one, they came to the tun; each, poised on the topmost rung

By the flank of the cask, uncorked his flask, and turned it over the bung.

When the day approached for the cask to be broached, the people, small and great,

Made a roaring crowd, gay, loyal and proud, as the King drove by in state;

6i
They cheered and clapped as the Chamberlain tapped. . . but guilt fell on all, and fear;

When the King would have quaffed his earliest draught-'twas water thin and clear

Each man of thrift had planned his gift, and said to his niggard's heart,

Is there any to know what I bestow, if my neighbours play their part?

Is there any to guess my-thriftiness, when I bear my flask to the tun?

If ninety and nine be full of wine, what matters water in one ? "

Take the lesson, then, young Englishmen, when the war cloud lowers black

Let no man shift his burden O/ gift on to the next man's back,

Answer to-day what Part you will Play, when your country gives the sign

What gift you will bring to your country and King-is your blood water or wine?

FRANK SIDGWICK.

Sa1urda Review.

INDIA TO ENGLAND.

OENGLAND! in thine hour of need,

When Faith's reward and valour's meed Is death or glory, When Faith indites, with biting brand,

Clasped in each warrior's stiffening hand, A nation's story;

Though weak our hands, which fain would clasp

The warrior's sword with warrior's grasp On victory's field;

Yet turn, O mighty Mother! turn

Unto the million hearts that burn To be thy shield.

Thine equal justice, mercy, grace

Have made a distant alien race A part of thee.

'Twas thine to bid their souls rejoice

When first they heard the living voice Of Liberty.
Unmindful of their ancient name, And lost to honour-glory-fame, And sunk in strife,

Thou found them, whom thy touch hath made

Men, and to whom thy breath conveyed A nobler life.

They, whom thy love hath guarded long;

They, whom thy care hath rendered strong In love and faith, Their heartstrings round thy heart entwine, They are, they ever will be, thine In life-in death.

NIZAMAT JUNG

(Native Judge of the High Court of Hyderabad).

Daily Telegraph.

VERSE.

TO OUR INDIAN TROOPS GOING TO TiE WAR.

FORWARD! Forward, gallant band! Forward, over sea and land. Where, upon a foreign strand,

Beckons Death or Victory!

Love and Faith and Duty call: England's honour summons all, By her side to stand or fall Makers of her history

Let the Western foemen trace In your heart and in your face Manhood of the Aryan race

And its pristine chivalry!

Let your dauntless deeds attest, Nobly, proudly to the West That within the Eastern breast

Throbs a heart as proud and free.

By you, at Britannia's side Be the banded world defied I Yours the glory, yours the pride There to conquer or to die. 65
Honour lives from age to age Bright on Time's recorded page. Be your sons' the heritage

Of your dauntless memory!

Forward! forward, gallant band, Forward, over sea and land, Where, upon a foreign strand,

Beckons Death or Victory!

NIZAMAT JUNG.

WAR AND PEACE.

[We specially commend to the British Nation, no less renowned for the victories of peace than for those of war, the Jollowing poem by Nawab Nzamat Jung, of Hyderabad, whose loyal tribute of verse to Great Britain will, we feel sure, be no less welcome to her than other offerings from India's dutiful sons.-EDITOR.]

A HUNDRED toilsome years have

rolled in vain

Since one proud eagle drooped his shattered wings:

Another rises-and the welkin rings

With the mad cry "For Glory" once again!

And legions rush through carnage to attain

Some fancied good that blood-stained Conquest brings.

Is this the boast of Councils and of Kings,

O God! to triumph over millions' pain?

Guardians of Good! Ye Nations of the West!

Shall mind still worship brute Force deified? 67
'Tis Mind not Force doth Nations' worth attest:

Force died with Rome-high Thought hath outlived Greece!

Be thine, O England! thine the nobler pride

To win true Glory with the arts of Peace!

NIZAMAT JUNG.

The Comrade 'Delhi).

LOU VA IN .

HAS History a direr deed to show

Than this? Rests any darker,

deadlier stain

On Attila's renown? Was Tamburlaine

To anguish'd human kind a fiercer foe

Than Germany's mad War-Lord? Blow on blow

He overtops the iniquities of Spain,

Outdoes the branded crimes of Alva's reign,

And drags his country's glory low, how low!

The world looks on appalled: and not alone

We mortals-shuddering gaze the mighty dead.

Luther, Kant, Goethe, Bach, and Beethoven

Ask "Are these Germans? Nay, then, we disown

Our kinship with a breed reversive-bred,

Who war on arts and learning. We were Men."

WILLIAM ARCHER.

Obcver, August 30th, 19, 1.

69
A CALL TO THE FOUR NATIONS.

MEN of the English nation, men of

the English race,

Your kinsmen battle in Flanders; you must back them in their place.

They have done the deeds of heroes; try to do better than they;

For if ever the Devil triumph there is ever the Devil to pay.

Shall Trafalgar, Waterloo, Agincourt, all

the immortal lot,

Mean no more than a fairy tale, to be told and to be forgot?

Here in our little island, we have heard the roar of the guns;

Let manhood answer the challenge, and strike the stroke at the Huns.

They sap our cities with spying, would sap our spirit with lies

They talk of surprising England; be it her part to surprise.

The Bugle of Hope is blowing, the Flag of Faith unfurled.

So follow the Call and the Colours and save the Soul of the World.

72

Men of the Scottish nation, men of the Scottish race,

When the cries of your pipes are uttered, the foe goes pale in the face.

They have lilted loud on a thousand fields, they must lilt louder still,

Till the heart of the Hun is water for the surly songs they shrill.

Lads of the Clans and the Tartans, lads of the Lowland kin,

if none can teach you a losing game, you need no teaching to win.

You have shared great pages of story; there's a greater story to spell;

Highlanders, Lowlanders, bear in mind, it is partly yours to tell

For the more you send to the muster, the more will have power to deal

With the killers of women and children, the preachers of Blood and Steel.

The Bugle of Hope is blowing, the Flag of Faith unfurled.

So follow the Call and the Colours and save the Soul of the World.

Men of the Cymric nation, men of the Cymric race,

With English and Irish and Scotchmen, will Welshmen not keep pace?

73
Roman and Saxon and Norman you fought in the days of old;

You gave kings and queens to England, to have her and to hold;

You did well for queen and country when the rage of Spain was strong;

Do better for king and country, in the face of a greater wrong.

For the shade of Elizabeth Tudor entreats you to send your men,

From hill and lake and river, from pen and fen and glen,

So come from the northland and southland, come from the west and the east.

To shoulder the rifle of empire, and fight with the Yellow Beast.

The Bugle of Hope is blowing, the Flag of Faith unfurled.

So follow the Call and the Colours and save the Soul of the World.

Men of the Irish nation, men of the Irish race

England has given you freedom; repay her with grace for grace;

Double the deed of Fontenoy, when you saved the day for France;

Serve France again, and England, with an Irish Brigade's advance.

74

On the nameless grave of Emmet you may epitaph his worth,

Taking your place in the fighting line with the Nations of the Earth.

Though you shed your blood like Sarsfield, you do not share his rue,

You shed your blood for Ireland, you shed it for England too.

Give in the cause of the Holy War the best account you can

Of the knaves who train their cannon on the shrines of the Son of Man.

The Bugle of Hope is blowing, the Flag of Faith unfurled.

So follow the Cause and the Colours and save the Soul of the World.

JUSTIN HUNTLY McCARTHY.
WINTER NIGHT.

R OAMS the East wind across a midnight sky,

And shapes of cloud, transparent, curdled, white,

Like homing spirits take their lowly flight Before his breath; but glittering on high

A throb of winter stars doth chequer heaven with light.

Here, underneath the Hunter, all is still,

And silver Sirius sparkles at his feet;

While nearer, children of the earth, they fleet

Those sad, etiolate clouds along the hill

As though our dead returned their native land to greet.

How may one slumber, how the curtain close

And shut them out and turn to blessed rest, While, panging like a poison in the breast,

Their agony for ever flows and flows?

By day, by night they fall, our bravest and our best.

76

O little clouds, the stars ye cannot hide,

Yet shadow in your impotence a plea

Mightier than all the night's immensity

Hath power to conjure of her pomp and pride:

The claim of men who die that man may still go free.

Your vapours sink to earth; down from his height,

Flashing red gold, each ancient star departs;

Chill Eurus droops at dawn's approaching darts;

For clouds and stars and winds shall pass with night;

The ever living dead shine on within our hearts.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

Bulls!, Review.
"Free the workers, thinkers, singers, To their saner selves restore them, Save their souls, reclaim their genius For the service of mankind."

* * * * * *

Can we crush the Idol? Never Doubt it I for a mightier godhead, Ancient, awful, fights on our side, And its name is NEMESIS.

WILLIAM ARCHER.

TO GREAT BRITAIN.

B RITAIN! you with a heart of flame One as in days gone by,

You who honour your Nelson's name,

How could you hear the word of shame

Nor rise and give it the lie

Better endure war's worst of ills,

The woe of a hundred fights,

Than cower behind your banks and tills

And smug with your money, your mines, your mills,

Forswear a neighbour's rights.

For how could you hope for a wide ,world's trust

If, traitor by land and sea,

You had let French lilies lie in the dust

Nor challenged for peace the War-Lord's lust

And struck for a Europe free.

Fight and in hope, for battle is banned,

The world shall yet rejoice,

For the peoples rise in wrath to demand

Henceforth no war shall trouble the land

Except at a people's voice.

H. D. RAWNSLEY.

English Review.

83
REASON AND HONOUR.

WAS not the bounty of the grape and corn,

Burned into ripeness by a summer sped,

Harvest enough without all they have borne

In their own aching flesh and from their bosoms fed?

Shall they, the mothers of the time to be,

Create for nothing but a league-long grave,

That swallows up their immortality

And hideous yawns across a kingdom while they rave ?

'Tis they who forge the bolt, when nations chafe

And howl their battle cries of right and wrong;

'Tis they who lead the mighty armies safe

To manhood's threshold, brave and beautiful and strong.

84

For death's the only answer that we make

When hungry kingdoms rise and fall on strife

Still one insensate spirit's greed can break

The wide world's peace, and drain her holy founts of life.

And still the grandest death that man may die

Is held the death of war, at some great need

Beyond all human reason's power to try,

Since honour often spurns her sister, reason's rede.

For reason's dumb while honour's thirsty blade

Still flashes to the universe how man

Remains so blind, so faltering, so afraid

That carnage yet controls his highest hope and plan.

But reason, guarding well her golden light,

Denies he shall for ever sate his dearth

Like wolf or tiger; wills such futile might

Anon be banned and thrust from off the good round earth.

85
She dawns upon the darkness of our eyes;

Reveals that war can only hurl us back

On hostile values; whispers to the wise

How virtue in the fed is vice to them that lack.

Virtue and vice are names, not qualities,

And when the baffled cry that might is right,

No smug opinion from the unconscious skies

For doubtful virtue's sake shall hold them to their plight.

All nations live by ideals; but in need

They linger with no ethic obsolete;

They bend the knee to no unfriendly creed;

But tramp their values firm beneath an army's feet.

Remains to man this everlasting truth

That for his sure defence and steadfast guide,

Reason and honour, by the way of ruth,

Shall yet march, hand in hand, and onward, side by side. 86

Again the world is meeting might with might,

And when the battle's fought and lost and won,

Pray victory decree, as primal right,

That reason also wins a kingdom in the sun.

Then shall she swiftly, for our world-wide shame,

Bend to the Mother from her starry place,

And, in humanity's almighty name,

For ever dry the tears upon that sacred face.

EDEN PH!LLPOTTS.

Ens,' Review.
THE NEW SPIRIT.

WHEN England of the quiet heart Flung back the covenant of shame,

A dignity of high resolve

Upon her councils came.

Freedom's old standard, long laid by

Shook out its tattered folds once more And rank on rank with steady eyes

Her sons went out to war.

Unbroken in these ancient fields

A Sabbath calm dwells in the air, And men along the shady road

Go quietly to prayer.

Vial of wrath has burst the seal

Thrones fall and dominations cease; The silent face of England wears

The dignity of peace.

EDWARD MELBOURNE.

Salurday Review.

TO OUR DEAD.

SLEEP well, heroic souls, in silence

sleep,

Lapped in the circling arms of kindly death I

No ill can vex your slumbers, no foul breath

Of slander, hate, derision mar the deep

Repose that holds you close. Your kinsmen reap

The harvest you have sown, while each man saith

"So would I choose, when danger threateneth,

Let my death be as theirs," we dare not weep.

For you have scaled the starry heights of fame,

Nor ever shrunk from peril and distress

In fight undaunted for the conqueror's prize;

Therefore your death, engirt with loveliness

Of simple service done for England's name,

Shall shine like beacon-stars of sacrifice.

W. L. COURTNEY.

Fortnightly Review.

8o
MEDIATION IN WAR-TIME

(After St. Ansthn.)

I F Thou, Lord God, wiliest to judge This Thy most piteous clay, Which to save, Christ did not grudge

His red dying I should say:

Now I interpose His death

'Twixt these children and Thy wrath."

Then if Thou should'st say, "Their shame Is as scarlet in Mine eyes,"

I should ask, "Who bare the blame?

Look on Thy Son's sacrifice!

His dear Blood is far more bright

That shall wash the scarlet white."

Still if Thou Thy frown must keep And Thine eyes Thou dost avert

(Ah! dear Shepherd of the Sheep)

I will say, "Who took the hurt?

I present Christ's death and pain

'Twixt Thine anger and these slain."

90

Dear, they die in millions For a quarrel not their own Look to this poor flock, Thy Son's,

Harried all and overthrown.

See, I lay Christ's Cross between

Dear, Thy justice and their sin.

KATHERINE TYNAN.

New Witness.
TO THE MEMORY of FIELD-MARSHAL EARL ROBERTS of Kandahar and Pretoria.

[Born, 1832. Died on service at the Front, November 141h, 1914.)

HE died, as soldiers die, amid the strife,

Mindful of England in his latest prayer;

God, of His love, would have so fair a life Crowned with a death as fair.

He might not lead the battle as of old, But, as of old, among his own he went, Breathing a faith that never once grew cold, A courage still unspent.

So was his end; and, in that hour., across The face of War a wind of silence blew,

And bitterest foes paid tribute to the loss Of a great heart and true.

92
But we who loved him, what have we to lay

For sign of worship on his warrior-bier?

What homage, could his lips but speak to-day,

Would he have held most dear?

Not grief, as for a life untimely reft;

Not vain regret for counsel given in vain;

Not pride of that high record he has left,

Peerless and pure of stain;

But service of our lives to keep her free,

The land he served; a pledge above his grave

To give her even such a gift as he,

The soul of loyalty, gave.

That oath we plight, as now the trumpets swell

His requiem, and the men-at-arms stand mute,

And through the mist the guns he loved so well

Thunder a last salute I

OWEN SEAMAN.

Punch.
THE WAR-SHADOW.

I.

LT year I called this world of

gaingivings

The darkest thinkable, and questioned sadly

If my own land could heave its pulse less gladly,

So charged it seemed with circumstance that brings

The tragedy of things.

IL

Yet at that censured time no heart was rent

Or feature blanched of parent, wife, or daughter

By hourly blazoned sheets of listed slaughter

Death waited Nature's wont; Peace smiled unshent

From md to Occident.

THOMAS HARDY.

iI'ay Poems.

MATER DOLOROSA.

HAT have I given thee,

England, beloved of me?

I have no gold for thy desolate,

I have no spear to guard thy gate,

My hands are weak on the harp of fate In the hour of threnody.

Yet I have given, I And, England, my gifts lie

Far from thee and thy sacred strand.

I have given the hand that held my hand,

The feet that once on my palm could stand, The hopes I was nourished by.

All that I had, I give, The life that I bade live, The heart that my heart made to beat, The lips erstwhile on my lips so sweetThese have I given; is it not meet To have striven that thou mayst strive? 95
The clay of France doth shrine This only gift of mine;

England, be it not made in vain,

Be but thy glory great as our pain.

We are glad to have given-would give again The light of our days for thine

DOROTHY MARGARET STUART.

Bi; Review.

ABI, VIATOR-.

1 F thou hast seen the standard dim

Droop in its mesh of dust and grime

Above the carven hands of him

Who bore it in some ancient time; If thou hast seen the silent sword

Rust redly in its tattered sheath, Hast caught the echo of the word

That flung an English glove at death, And yet thy pulses march unstirred,

And still thy breath comes calm and slow,

Pass on-no Englishman art thou I

If thou canst hear and see to-day

The distant clamour and the fume Of crimson fate, and yet canst say

"The gain is mine, be theirs the doom." If thou thy unthrilled hands canst fold,

If thou canst check thy seaward tread, Canst shun the dust and guard the gold,

Thou hast no kinship with thy dead; Ahi if thy craven heart is cold,

Pause not the perilous page to scan

Pass on-thou art no Englishman I

97 G
But if the distant unison Of swooping sword and flying dart,

Of straining sail and muttering gun,

Touches thy spirit and thy heart;

If England's day and England's call

Find thee a son of England, then

Thou canst not falter-thou, nor all

Her noble heritage of men;

Pass on-she stands, although we fall,

Pass on unshaken though stars shake

Thyself canst tell what road to take!

DOROTHY MARGARET STUARL

R,'ilish Review.

ARE ALBERTO.

Saluto Italico.

OALBERTO, biondo e leggendario re, Che ne lusinga menzognera ammalia Ne ferreo pugno pieganoi vorremmo Mietere tutti i flori dell'Italia E darli a tel

Anche I'Italia contro l'oppressore Magnifica e furente combatt; Tra le antiche ferite nel suo cuore Una nuova ferita di dolore Aperta or

Questa-che pur fremente di stupenda Ferocia e di magnanimo fervore Ii popolo d'Italia, o eroico re, Nell'ora tua piü sacra e pi tremenda Non fu con te.

ANNIE VIVANTI CHARTRES.

Times.

99
A TRIBUTE FROM ITALY.

A BERT, thou standest where the storm-cloud lowers Unvanquished in thy glorious defeat. Oh ! to strip Italy of all her flowers And bring them to thy feet!

No deeper sorrow shall Italia know,

Whose sons for freedom's sake have fought and died,

Than this-that in thine hour of darkest woe

She was not by thy side.

A.V.C.

Times.

THE YSER.

SWEET and soft was thy stream,

Yser,

As it first sang the song of the Spirit that wrought thee;

When down to thy brim came the drytongued hare,

And the little low hills their moist tribute brought thee.

Lithe, yet lowly,

Like a maid half-holy,

As thy lover the sun in the white dawn caught thee.

Sad and sluggish thy tide, Yser,

When man cast his mantle of sin about thee,

And the mean alley stoops to the wharfinger's stair,

And the sodden string of the barges flout thee.

Sad and shamed,

Like a wild thing tamed,

As the slimy lock-gates dare thee and doubt thee.

101
Red and royal thy flood, Yser,

When the nations flock to debate thy fording,

And the great guns crash, and the bugles blare,

And the blood soaks into thy banks for hoarding.

Red, rose-red,

Is thy bosom with dead,

As the shells strike home on the frail bridge-boarding.

It is no great span to thy stream, Yser,

But the Styx were an impotent babble beside.

Though thy ooze be slow as a midnight mere,

There's the ebbing of life in its ghastly tide.

Thou art consecrate

To a proud foe's fate,

Who peered in the ink of thy magic, and died.

When the judgment sounds on thy life, Yser,

And thou liest prone in thy penitency,

The God who girt Eden with rivers fair,

102

And set on our walls that old watchman, the sea

He shall not forget, When the thrones are set,

How thou gayest thy soul to the stand of the free.

PHILIP BYARD CLAYTON.

British Review.
But they looked on Maiplaquet and Oudenarde,

So the soil was sacred.

And they thought (who knows?) on some Surrey lane,

On some mother's kiss, or some school refrain,

And they tightened the girths of their saddles again,

Since Mons must be held for England.

Red set the sun in the angry skies

Ere the fight was over.

Fierce were the beams of the cruisers' eyes

By the cliffs of Dover.

News-ill news-for Namur is lost!

No need for the Eagle to count the cost.

But Mons was the merest hill at the most,

Yet Mons had been held for England.

Lord, Who hast known what a slain Son is.

Judge Thou their labour!

Lifted they eyes to the vanities?

Deceived their neighbour?

Sift Thou the souls that are utterly Thine,

Clean are those cold hands of covert design;

Silent they lie in their last long line,

Who died to hold Mons for England!

PHILIP BYARD CLAYTON. :

xoó

THE ARMY OF THE DEAD.

I DREAMED that overhead I saw in twilight grey The Army of the Dead

Marching upon its way,

So still and passionless,

With faces so serene,

That scarcely could one guess

Such men in War had been.

No mark of hurt they bore

Nor smoke, nor bloody stain;

Nor suffered any more

Famine, fatigue, or pain;

Nor any lust of hate

Now lingered in their eyes

Who have fulfilled their fate,

Have lost all enmities.

A new, a greater pride

So quenched the pride of race

That foes marched side by side

Who once fought face to face.

That ghostly Army's plan

Knows but one race, one rod

All Nations there are Man

And the one King is God.

107
No longer on their ears

The bugle's summons falls;

Beyond these tangled spheres

The Archangel's trumpet calls;

And by that trumpet led

Far up the exalted sky

The Army of the Dead

Goes by, and still goes by

Look upward, standing mute; Salute

BARRY PAIN.

West; nstei Gazette.

THE RETURN.

I HEARD the rumbling guns. I saw the smoke, The unintelligible shock of hosts that still,

Far off, unseeing, strove and strove again;

And beauty flying naked down the hill.

From morn to eve: and the stern night cried Peace

And shut the strife in darkness: all was still,

Then slowly crept a triumph on the dark

And I heard Beauty singing up the hill.

JOHN FREEMAN.

Westminster Gaze-Ue.
While, O proudest Page in all the story

Of Imperial India's book of life I

One by one each Princely Feudatory

In our service arms him for the strife.

Our retreat is stayed, and Frank and Briton,

Reinforced, leap forth to the attack

Now the smiter hip and thigh is smitten;

In defeat we roll him roughly back.

Now again in anger dour he rallies,

And again assaults us flank and front;

While his dead and ours o'er hills and valleys

Mix amid the dreadful battle brunt.

Up the slopes his batteries are crowning,

Foot by foot we dig our trenches in;

Rise and charge and seize his cannon frowning,

Though we fall in swaths one gun to win.

Trusting surely that how oft soever

Back and forth War's crimson waves may flow,

On our faithful, chivalrous endeavour

Victory's full-orbed sun at last shall glow.

ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES.

Contemporary Review.

THE BULWARKS.

F The splendid spirt of gallantry and devotion which

animates the officers and men of his Majesty's

/orces.-SIR JOHN FRENCH.]

WHAT though, with sullen roar, The raging billows beat, Against the everlasting shore,

Where strength and patience meet? At last the mad assault is o'er

And broken waves retreat.

So swells the Teuton wave, Against the British strandAnd so, indomitably brave, The British legions stand, While disappointed despots rave To see her living bulwarks save

The threatened Motherland.

A. W. BUSTRIDGE.

Dajl1 Chronicle.
IN LACHRYMARUM VALLE.

Christmas, 1914

THE valley of the shadows tenebrous, The valley of tears, the valley desolate

We tread where fiends of ravin and of hate Strike mortal cold to hearts most valorous; Mother, we cry to thee: our need is great; To thee we send up voices clamorous; Bend pitying eyes upon our woeful state, Mother of the Saviour, Mary Immaculate, Mary Annunciate, Mary Dolorous, Mary in Glory, pray thy Son for us, That He send forth the Dove from Heaven's gate Into our wasted lands and devastate, That He Who is our Peace rule over us In Peace that wars no more may desecrate.

R. L. GALES.

British Review.

IN A HARVEST FIELD.

HOW quietly beneath the quiet sky These men are sleeping who shall

never wake!

But soon the plough, the harrow, and the rake

Shall pass them as I pass unheeded by;

For underneath the fallows they will lie

Who front to foe-good seed for Freedom's sake

Have fallen, and those who here their harvest make

Will wonder at the richness of the rye.

But He Who lets no single sparrow fall

Unnoted, unremembered, in His care

Has garnered all their great selfsacrifice;

And though too 'soon in tender earth there li'es

-Till crack of doom-each body made so fair,

A happier world shall be memorial.

H. D. RAW NSLEY;
A CONTRAST.

I BY the lapping of my household fire,

You in the trenches, starved and stiff for cold,

You by fatigue in few days grey and old,

I with my strength no needs, no calls require:

I wrapt in all the peace of heaven entire,

You with Hell's powers of darkness fold on fold,

You lacking all that life most dear can hold,

And I with all my utmost heart's desire.

But God shall strike the balance: I have had

My good in this my lifetime-all and more,

Have selfish sucked advantage from your strife,

While you, brave heroes, on that further shore

Shall find all good has equalised all bad;

Death may be mine-you win eternal life.

H. D. RAWNSLEY.

British Review.

NON-COMBATANT.

BEFORE one drop of angry blood was

shed

I was sore hurt and beaten to my knee;

Before one fighting man reeled back and died

The War-Lords struck at me.

They struck me down-an idle, useless mouth,

As cumbrous-nay, more cumbrousthan the dead,

With life and heart afire to give and give

I take a dole instead.

With life and heart afire to give and give

I take and eat the bread of charity.

In all the length of all this eager land,

No man has need of me.

That is my hurt-my burning, beating wound;

That is the spear-thrust driven through my pride!

With aimless hands, and mouth that must be fed,

I wait and stand aside.

117
Let me endure it, then, with stiffened lip I, even I, have suffered in the strife!

Let me endure it then-I give my pride Where others give a life.

CICELY HAMILTON. Westminster Gazette

"ALL'S WELL"

[Reprinted from "Christmas Roses b permission of the author.]

ATCHMAN, watchman, what of the night,

What of the night to tell?

The heavens are dark, and never a light

But the far-off flicker of Hell.

But the steed is in the stall,

Unsleeping;

And the warder on the wall,

Watch-keeping;

And the granary is stored,

And ready gun and sword.

In the name of the Lord, All's Well I

Watchman, watchman, what of the night,

What of the night to tell?

The wind blows fierce, and the foam flies white,

And the waters moan and swell.

But the foes to haven keep,

Safe hiding;

And our ships are on the deep,

Sure riding;

''9
And the gallant hearts on board

Keep ceaseless watch and ward.

In the name of the Lord,

All's Well!

Watchman, watchman, what of the night,

What of the night to tell?

There are widows weeping, and babes affright,

And a ceaseless burial bell.

But the hand that holds the gun Still shakes not;

And the line drops one by one, Yet breaks not.

Of the blood so nobly poured

There shall surely be reward.

In the name of the Lord,

All's Well!

F. W. BOURDILLON.

REVENGE FOR RHEIMS.

THOU Permanence amid all things

that pass!

Unchanging Thought amid the drift of change;

Thou Rally of the Soul in days of dross;

How art Thou fallen!

Thou Prayer, that ever-rising, yet remained,

That for seven hundred years didst sing and soar,

Spirit with wings outspread tip-toe on Earth,

How art Thou fallen!

Thou Vision frozen, and Thou Sigh transfixed;

Thou Camp of dreams, Thou Fort of faith unstormed,

Time-worn, yet wearying t 'ward Eternity,

How Art Thou fallen!

Thou wast to France her Inspiration old,

Thou hadst for ivy earliest memories;

From Thee her Knights, her Angels long looked down;

How art Thou fallen

121
What vengeance for Thy ruin shall She hurl? O, be that vengeance, that the ruin stand, Only those Choirs for ever unrestored 1 Ever unfallen!

STEPHEN PHILLIPS.

TO THE PRUSSIANIZERS OF GERMANY.

Lwould-be War Lord of the Western World How dost thou now ?-thou, who the die didst cast I Thou, who ten millions of mankind hast hurled Hosts against hosts, -as foes, who, in the past Contented dwelt to strive-e'en when outclassedMid peaceful rivalry; the while mankind True progress made; whereby the world amassed Knowledge, with wisdom-matter ruled by Mind For human weal,-and blessings unto all, freely assigned.

I here indict-thee, and the WilhelmstrasSure haven for each sordid sycophant, Whose fulsome flatteries well nigh surpass That vanity dire fate did in thee plant, With megalomania impious, whose cant Proclaims : "God is the Highest, but of all, The Highest is the Kaiser." Miscreant IDaring the Hosts of Heaven to battle call; Sealed is thy doom, and, e'en as Lucifer, thou, too, shalt fall.

A canc'rous kajserjtjs Prussia's blood Pervades, and hath empoisoned, since the day Fred'rick the Great engulfed her in his flood, And o'er the land cast his imperious sway. One prayer there is which Germany doth pray 'Tis "Deutschland uber Alles, "-where the "All" This maxim's infamy cloth now betray, Since, for its sake, Honour and justice fall, Swamped in a welling sea of blood, whose waves the World appal.

123
o Peaceless Soul ! Did Lucifer unbound Become re-incarnated at thy birth? In all this World there is no spirit found, Like thine afflicted; holding nothing worth, Save, what should make thee mightiest on EarthImpoverished, through long years, by thy strife For armaments; who naught recked of the dearth Amongst thy toiling millions, where burned rife Sin-conjured up from Hell, midst Sorrow's sweat-to soil each life.

Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad

E'en as with thee,-if ever thou wert wise Who flung aside good councillors for bad, Heedless of Bismarck's words : whilst Tchirschky 's eyes Their gleam malevolent-beneath the guise Of frank solicitude for Prussia's goodScarce hid ; as, Servia thirsting to chastise, He with Count Berchtold pandered to thy mood, Till, thou, with Austria, a bond endorsed-whose ink was blood.

By flatterers misled-with wild uproar That Britain was divided, and mischance Had plunged old England into Civil War,Thou cri'dst: The Day is come ! and fertile France Our plunder lies; ere turn we to make dance The Russian bear, with fire and shrapnel steel; Nor, at his ponderous weight look we askance Too slow his pace, where Prussia's Eagles wheel, Who, 'neath the impact of our beak and claws, shall stagg 'ring reel."

By pacifist diplomacy deceived, Berchtold, too late, all fearful, did implore In language which, his subtle mind conceived, Would balm of Gilead prove to Russia's sore;

124

And cried : "Austria has not banged the door On Peace ! Had, hence, some wireless whisper sped In widening circles ?-as though, from our shore, A hurtling missile to the ocean fled, Wave after wave sends forth, whose powers survive when they are dead.

Mad, fatal fool ! declining to unfoldDreading perchance thy Ministers might scoffThe plot thou hadst fomented with Berchtold And others kindred ; deeming Sazonoff Would promptly at thine ultimatum doff Honour for Shame ; and, the Imperial Czar, With Holy Russia, grovel in its trough. Thus-'gainst the very door of Hope ajarThou, Peace didst murder, with thy mailed fist, Death's Head Hussar. While peace lay dying, thy Chancellory, Fearful of foes its deeds might call to view, Proffered to England what thy history Shall with the blackest infamy endue, How dared ye think that England would-in lieu Of guarding Truth and Honour with her Name,Betray the World's high trust because she knew, By such apostasy, War's sword of flame She might escape 1-the only "cost" she recked-undying Shame.

Civilization looks on thee askance, Perfidious Prussia 1-such thy name shall stayWho strove, braye Belgium and immortal France That England with her Honour should betray. How thou and thine misjudged Sir Edward GreyUnto thy Chancellor rebuked, appeal I Treaties to violate ! Not such the way, Towards these "scraps of paper," Britons feel Though you hold : "Parchment parchment only is, but steel is steel I"

125
As, with her golden sandal 'd feet, fair Dawn Danced in sheer joyfulness of life, and all The glad land did rejoice,-its ripening corn In billowing beauty tossed with rustling call To peaceful harvest,-Suddenly, did fall Ambition's mailed fist: and each field strewed Where a relentless hail of steel did maul Close serried ranks of Manhood's flower : and hewed Red lanes of slaughter, "hacking a way through "-its "Cannon food."

Too late !-Since once the challenge thou hadst givenWar's thunder clouds to dissipate, which blew From every quarter of outraged heaven, As if the very Elementals knew Whilst a dread shadow o'er the Sun's face drew His light from off the Earth, o'er which did loomThreatening and murky with the awful hue Of Europe's blood-dread Armageddon's doom, Rolling in crimsoned waves such as ne'er flowed from out Time's womb.

We deemed, forsooth, that Eagles were our foes ! But now, you hop before us, selfconfessedWhose naked gory necks, outstretched, disclose Foul vultures, in mere Eagle's plumage dressed. That, Potsdam 's eyrie hatched-we little guessedSo vile a brood of megalomaniac stock, Whose crimes nameless atrocities attest; While, wheresoe 'er the Prussian Vultures flock, Their sins defile humanity, and make its God a mock.

We have beheld thy carrion neck laid bare, Thrusting, with rav'ning beak, into the heart Of Belgium's gallant children who did dare Fast holding rights thine own hand did impart

126

Refuse to barter Honour at thy mart. And Luxemburg I She, too, stood out in vain, Small, and defenceless 'gainst the Uhlan dart, Which hath laid waste fair Alsace and Louvain With sins obscene-whose cup of punishment deep shalt thou drain I

For deeds of infamy this doth record, Thee, and the Wilhelmstras, the World shall shame,Chastising, whilst Humanity applaudWhose troops, atrocities in Prussia's name inflicted unrestrained. Eternal blame Shall cleave to thee and thine who did commandThe innocent, to pillage, murder, maim; Thinking, by Fear, to thus subdue the land!Heedless of retribution's germs, wide sown, from blood-stained hand.

Cursed, for ever cursed !-be the hand That kennelled and unleashed the Potsdam Pack, To hurl them ravaging o'er Belgium's land No hound of hell was ever whelped so black, Nor spoored with nameless horrors such foul trackAs where the Prussian War-dogs gorge and gloat O'er childhood's ravished forms-from which they hack White limbs and trembling breasts, vainly besmote In piteous prayers for Mercy, slowly choked down each fair throat.

Not vain the cry of those wild agonies, Ascending from War's shambles thou hast fed Whence, swifter and more deadly foes now rise, Countless, invisible,-at whose grim head Ride Famine gaunt, and Pestilence, and Dread. When these, their direful purpose shall attainAvenging armies of the butchered deadNo Eagle o'er thy murderer's brow shall reign,

127
Whereon accursed, is blazed in lurid glow-the brand of Cain. Not on thy chosen Godhead doth the doom Thy deeds of blood have destined thee depend No man-imagined Deity, to whom Thou, Kaiser, can'st thine ultimatums send The God thy impious challenge doth offend Knows no appeals, He is the Causeless Cause Of All; for Him Time hath no birth nor end,By some, called "Nature,' '-Evolution's Cause For thee, " Necessity," He shall be named-" who knows no laws ! "

Himself the Law of Progress,-He, your judge, Whom none can influence He reigns supreme, Vain braggarts I boasting from your Potsdam sludge, You would of human progress stem the stream With waves of blood ;-the while you dare blaspheme, Naming the God of Gods as your ally Lo I You and yours shall pass, as fades a dream Of nightmare horror 'fore the bright'ning sky Cursed ever of the World, and all which once-was Germany

DOUGLAS S. SPENS STEUART.

Poetry Review.

TO A FRIEND-KILLED IN ACTION.

I FAIN would weep, and yet my eyes are dry;

My lips are dumb, for fear lest they should speak

The hasty word, and in reproaches seek

Revolt from God's decree that you should die.

I know you would not ask me for my tears,

But rather have me face with courage cairn

The lonely hours, and find some healing balm

To fill the emptiness of future years.

And so I pray for strength to bind my soul

With faith unconquerable and hope divine;

And from the grief and sorrow that are mine

Draw cleansing grace to make my being whole'

Thus from your loss one friend at least shall gain

New life, to prove you have not died in vain.

HAROLD SIMPSON.

Poetry Review.

129 1
WAR.

OHELL-SPED fury War, with wings

raised high

Hawk-like that hoverest to smite !

How many eager now, stark-dead shall lie,

Ere thou hast flown thy fatal flight!

o sea of strife, whose armed hosts still come on,

Like wind-urged waves across the main ! -

What throes must flesh endure ere thou sink down

In smoothly flowing Peace again!

O callous War! Cold-blooded game of death,

With men 'gainst men as foes arrayed,

What pride of youth must yield life's precious breath

Ere to an end thy game be played!

o devastating, desolating War,

What dirges follow thee I what dearth

And blackened ruin, where thou goest, mar

The goodly pleasantness of Earth

GRACE E. TOLLEMACHE.

A zi,'ust 1st.

SONNET.

OYE to whom dear life is still most

dear,

Heed not the sirens' soft perfidious song

That bids you barter, for a brief term here,

Abiding honour! As the martyr-throng

For love of Christ went stedfast to the stake

And by faith's rapturous power embraced the flame,

So, gladly, ye, for your own Country's sake,

Must court the fiery Fates that wound and maim!

And if on valour's path to victory's end,

Sweet life in one swift flash ye must renounce,

Rejoice that your high lot should so transcend

Man's common doom! The brave can di but once,

But in your death, thrice-gloriously ye'll die,

For England, for men's hearths, and Liberty!

GRACE E. TOLLEMACHE.

ziernOsr Isl.

131
SONNET.

ENGLAND! that thou wast faint of

heart we said,

Or mi7 thought; and that the wreath of bays

Drooped on thy brow, withered with length of days,

A dust-layered trophy of the age-long Dead:

We wronged thee much !-Myriads this month have bled

And died for thee, and though the end delays,

There's not one that a daunted spirit betrays

Nor that for thee life's last drop would not shed I

We deemed thy robes grown faded,-but fresh-dyed

We now behold them,-and their crimson dye

Is of thy sons' spilt blood, deep-hued and glowing:

O England! thou art comely in thy pride

And clad in glorious raiment, and thy going

Is as of one who goes to victory!

GRACE E. TOLLEMACHE.

October st.

ONE NIGHT.

I WALKED into a moon of gold last night

Across grey sands she seemed to shine so bright.

Wide, wide the sands until I met the sea,

Cradle of moons, yet searchlights followed me.

I asked the moon if creeping round the Zones

She had seen good, or only poor things' bones.

"Pale faces I have seen, unconscious men

Bereft of struggling horror now and then.

"And sinking ships I see, and floating mines,

And cries I hear, 'O God,' and choking whines.

But later when the stars shine on the wave

And give more light, I know the dead die

brave.

'33
"Passing so quickly from the things that count,

Count to all mortal thoughts, to find the Fount,

"Where angels pour elixir into bowls,

Drink, not for broken hearts, but thirsty souls. "

And what on shore?" I asked, "the great Divide

Where rivers run, and trenches side by side?"

"There," the moon said, "the snow was on the ground

And the frost pinched me as I beamed around.

"Red pools of gore, and ghastly shadows lay

In deep dug corners, so I sank away.

"Let misty cloudlets sweep across my face

To hide the earth, and give me heart of grace.

" Sudden the air seemed filled with eager breath

Of great Adventurers, released from death,

12A

And shaking blood from out their eyes and hair

Shouting for further knowledge here and there.

I lighted these across the treacherous Path

To reach the garden of Life's aftermath.

"And as they sped in troops the great guns boomed,

With flashes lightning swift, and dark hordes loomed,

And phantom shapes of patient warrior bands

Then more snow fell and shrouded all the lands."

* * * * *

Now pondering from the moon I turned again,

Over the sands, back to our House of Pain.

MILLICENT SUTHERLAND.

LriisJi Hospital,

Malo, Dunkirk, France.

English Review.
NIGHT OUTPOSTS.

(British Expeditionary Force.)

ZIP!Zing !

A bullet sped!

The grim Hun chuckled; A poor heart bled.

Then the lilt of a boyish voice

Rang out through the murky night:

"Say, Dad-I'm hurt-and, why, here's Joyce:

Play-up-old school-Good-night!

And wan and dreary crept up the day

On a lonely outpost place;

For the light of life had stolen away

From a dear brown smiling face.

Then pray to your gods for the life, grit and power,

To tear with your hands, sword and gun

O! English sons, avenge that hour!

And CHOKE that chuckling Hun.

A. E. WHITING-BAKER.

GOD SAVE THE KING.

[Copyright. By permission of the late Mr. James Elroy Flecker's representatives.]

GOD save our gracious King, Nations and State and King, God save the King!

Grant him good Peace Divine, But if his Wars be Thine, Flash on his Fighting Line Victory's Wing!

Thou in his suppliant hands Hast placed such mighty Lands:

Save Thou our King! As once from golden skies Rebels with flaming eyes So the King's enemies

Doom Thou and fling.

Mountains that break the night Holds he by Eagle Right, Stretching far wing: Dawn lands for youth to reap, Dim lands where Empires sleep His! And the Lion-Deep

Roars for the King.
But most these few dear miles Of star-flower-meadowed isles, England, all Spring. Scotland that by the marge Where the blank north doth charge Hears Thy voice loud and large Guard, and their King!

Grace on the golden dales Of Thine old Christian Wales Shower till they sing,Till Erin's island Lawn Echo the dulcet-drawn Song with a shout of DawnGod save the King!

JAMES ELROY FLECKER.

