DEDICATION.

To THE MEMORY OF RUPERT BROOKE

(Who died of sunstroke at Lemnos, on active service
with the Royal Naval Division, St. George's Day,
1915.)

WILD his memorial where young flowers and 
fair,
Not hoary yews, may wreathe the statue's 
plinth!
Apollo, kissing, killed him unaware,
But with the fate the fragrance he shall share 
Of stricken Hyacinth.

Here, therefore, let the mourning Muses strew
Amaranth and asphodel on his repose:
Above all, let this England which he knew
So well that he could die for her, bring rue 
And rosemary and rose.

Waft him, all winds, the scent of English earth!
Let the wood's whisper and the wood-flower's 
breath
Find, fresh as rain amid the desert's dearth, 
The heart that seemed April's appropriate birth;
Sealed April's, too, in death
Deaf to the roar of battle, yet shall he
Hear what the grass says when a light breeze 
stirs ....
Mothers of men, that men may still be free, 
Yield now their sons-Chief Poet, own and see 
That Song has spared not hers!
S. GERTRUDE FORD.


ENGLAND'S DEAD.*
* This poem was written about 1902, and published by the 
Spectator last June, having been found among the author's 
papers by his executor.

"Make them to be numbered with Thy saints: in glory everlasting."

HOMEWARD the long ships leap: swift-shod 
with joy,
Striding the deep-sea dykes fast home they fare,-
Where is my wedded love? Where is my boy?
Where go the dead that died for England, 
where ?

Homeward the long ships leap; but not with 
these
Thy boy, thy wedded love, 0 gentle-eyed
Woman of England, nor far over-seas
Mixing with dull earth sleep the dead that died

For England. They, in God's completed aims,
Bear each his part; unseen of bounded sight,
Down the vast firmament that floats and flames
Crested with stars and panoplied in light,

Of strenuous clean souls a long array
With lambent lance and white, bright, blinding
sword,
All riding upon horses-what are they?
They are the dead which died in Christ their 
Lord

For England, from old time; with God made 
one,
As on the mount the triple vision shone,
So shine they now, and like the noontide sun
Before them all the fair St. George rides on.

There goes the boy of Crécy, whispering low
To him of Agincourt, a kingly pair,
With many mighty men which bent the bow-
There go the dead that died for England, there;

There go those quenchiess Talbots, there the
flower
Of Devon, Grenville, Gilbert, mariners rare,
She too who thought foul scorn of Philip's power,-
There go the dead that died for England, there;

And Sidney who the rippling cup resigned,
And happy Wolfe; wan Pitt released from 
care,
Nelson the well-beloved, and all his kind-
There go the dead that died for England, there;

And he who broke the Corsican's strong spell,
And Nicholson impatient of despair,
And Gordon, faithful, desolate sentinel-
There go the dead that died for England, there;

And there unhelmeted, ungirt of brand.
Victoria moves with mild, maternal air,
Still vigilant, still prayerful for the land--
There go the dead that died for England, there;

Nor ride they idly nor with indolent rein,
Irresolute, as men that seek no foe,
But by the pathless sea, by peak and plain
Bright-eyed, stern-lipped, all day, all night 
they go

Forth as a fire that snatches and davours
Wind-withered woods, so go they swift and fell,
Warring with principalities and powers,
Hunting through space the swart, old bands of 
hell

And all the sounding causeways of the spheres
Ring like white iron with the rhythmic tread
Of these and their innumerable peers;
But most round England muster England's 
dead,

Round England cradled in her roaring seas,
With Arctic snows white-girdled, bathed in 
suns
Asian. and Australasian, there go these;
And where one solitary trader runs

His English keel, and where one lonely sword
Glimmers for England, one unsleeping brain
Watches and works for England, thitherward
Gather the bright souls of her servants slain

For her, and lock their shimmering ranks, and 
sweep
Round England's child as sweeps the northern 
gale
Round some stark pine-tree on the moorland 
steep,
And from the flash and rattle of their mail


Hell's pale marauders shudderingly recoil
Frustrate. 0 glad condition and sublime
Of our undying dead, to fight and foil
The ancient foe, continually to climb


Through God's high order of His saints, to meet
Some soul whose star-like name lit all their 
course,
And commune with him, to discern and greet
Old kindred, love, and friendship, hound and horse;

To see God face to face, and still to see
And labour for the loves that grope on earth,
To wait serenely till all souls shall be
One in God's aristocracy of worth-

o glad condition and sublime! whereto
That southern tomb thy hands may never tend
Was but the gateway thy loved boy passed 
through,
Thy wedded love passed through, that he 
might wend

Homeward to thee; thou canst not see the blaze
Of his great blade nor hear his trumpets blare,
Yet thick as brown leaves round about thy ways,
There go the dead that died for England, there.

FRANK TAYLOR.


 FLOWER OF YOUTH.


LEST Heaven be thronged with greybeards 
hoary,
God, who made boys for His delight, 
Stoops, in a day of grief and glory,
And calls them in, in from the night. 
When they come trooping from the war 
Our skies have
many a new gold star.


Heaven's thronged with gay and careless faces,
New-waked from dreams of dreadful things. 
They walk in green and pleasant places
And by the crystal water-springs 
Who dreamt of dying and the slain, 
And the fierce thirst and the strong pain.

Dear boys! They shall be young for ever:
The Son of God was once a boy. 
They run and leap by a clear river,
And of their youth they have great joy. 
God, who made boys so clean and good, 
Smiles with the eyes of fatherhood.

Now Heaven is by the young invaded;
Their laughter's in the House of God. 
Stainless and simple as He made it
God keeps the heart o' the boy unflawed.

The old wise Saints look on and smile, 
They are so young and without guile.
Oh, if the sonless mothers weeping, 
And widowed girls could see inside 
The glory that hath them in keeping
Who went to the Great War and died, 
They would rise and put their mourning off, 
And say: "Thank God, he has enough!"

KATHARINE TYNAN.
16

THE LIVING VICTIMS:

FATHERS AND MOTHERS OF THE FALLEN.

0 PIERCÉD hearts and empty eyes, 
I, seeing your great sacrifice, 
I, who no younger part can play,
Just bless and thank you, night and day. 
Your faces, not the forms I meet, 
Make the procession of the street 
And in the anguished night I start 
'Tis you who take me by the heart.

Yet comfort find I in this thought :
When God for man's Redemption wrought, 
And One must die, He chose the part 
Far sharper to the Father's heart, 
And gave His Son. 0 dearest You, 
Take that high parable for true. 
Ye gods and goddesses 'mong men 
It shall be now as it was then :- 
The earth be saved (0 share my faith!) 
By the blest Boys you gave to Death.

With even these words to your deaf heart 
I eased my secondary smart; 
Then felt ashamed, as they who shout 
When God's own silence is about, 
And turned, that I might hide my head :
Because there's nothing to be said.

(From Aunt Sarah and the War.)


SUMMER IN ENGLAND, 1914.

ON London fell a clearer light; 
Caressing pencils of the sun 
Defined the distances, the white
Houses, transfigured one by one, 
The " long, unlovely street " impearled. 
O what a sky has walked the world!

Most happy year! And out of town
The hay was prosperous, and the wheat; 
The silken harvest climbed the down;
Moon after moon was heavenly-sweet, 
Stroking the bread within the sheaves, 
Looking, 'twixt apples and their leaves.

And while this rose made round her cup,
The armies died convulsed; and when 
This chaste young silver sun went up
Softly, ten thousand shattered men, 
One wet corruption, heaped the plain, 
After a league-long throb of pain.

Flower following tender flower; and birds,
And berries; and benignant skies 
Made thrive the serried flocks and herds-
Yonder are men shot through the eyes, 
And children crushed. Love, hide thy face 
From man's unpardonable race.


A Reply.

Who said "No man hath greater love than this,

To die to serve his friend ? " 
So these have loved us all unto the end. 
Chide thou no more, 0 thou unsacrificed! 
The soldier dying dies upon a kiss, 
The very kiss of Christ.

ALICE MEYNELL.

19

TO S. K., KILLED IN ACTION.

(WRITTEN BY HIS FIRST TEACHER).

'YOU, killed in action, leading men! 
I hardly yet believe it true:
For me you're still the boy of ten,
Blue-eyed and curly-haired, I knew.

You looked so gentle and so mild,
I wondered if you'd play your part,
For schoolboy life is rough : you smiled,
And straightway captured every heart.

You played your part: you wrote your name
Upon our simple annals clear,
In field and form-room still the same,
A knight without reproach or fear.

We saw you go from strength to strength,
Your praises loud on every lip,
Until you crowned the whole at length
By leaving with a Scholarship.

The years passed by, and Oxford took
The charge your Public School laid down;
One happy year, and you forsook
For duty called-the magic gown.
Of course you were the first to go: 
You never were the sort to shirk.
That was no time for books, and so 
You turned to more important work.

And is this all ? Was all in vain
The life that you so early gave 
And only, swept by wind and rain, 
Another British soldier's grave ?

We thought that radiant soul was meant 
For greater things: we should be sure 
o life is short, thus nobly spent, 
No hero's death is premature.


W. SNOW.

(The Spectator, May 15th, 1915.)

"MISSING."

WHEN the anxious hearts say "Where? “
He doth answer " In My care."

“Is it life or is it death ?”
"Wait," He whispers. " Child, have faith!”

"Did they need love's tenderness?”
“Is there love like Mine to bless?”

"Were they frightened at the last?” 
“No, the sting of death is past."

"Did a thought of 'Home-Love' rise?
"I looked down thro' Mother-eyes."

“Saviour, tell us, where are they?” 
“In My keeping, night and day.”

“Tell us, tell us, how it stands.zzzz’
"None shall pluck them from My Hands."
IVAN ADAIR.
(The Booknan)



A.B.V.: By R.V.

I BOW my head, 0 brother, brother, brother,
But may not grudge you that were all to me.
Should any one lament when this our mother
Mourns for so many sons on land and sea?
God of the love which makes two lives as one,
Give also strength to see that England's will be 
done.

Let it be done, yea down to the last tittle,
Up to the fulness of all sacrifice.
Our dead feared this alone-to give too little
Then shall the living murmur at the price?
The hands withdrawn from ours to grasp the 
plough
Would suffer only if the furrow faltered now.

Know, fellow-mourners-be our cross too 
grievous
That One who sealed our symbol with His blood
Vouchsafes the Vision which shall never leave us:
Those humble crosses in the Flanders mud.
And think there rests all-hallowed, in each grave,
A life given freely for the world He died to save.

And far ahead, dim marching generations
That never felt and cannot guess our pain
-Though history count nothing less than 
nations,
And fame forget where grass has grown again-
Shall yet remember that the world is free.
It is enough. For this is immortality.

I raise my head, 0 brother, brother, brother.
The organ sobs for triumph to my heart.
What! who will think that ransomed Earth 
can smother
Her own great soul of which you are a part ?
The requiem music dies as if it knew
The inviolate peace where 'tis already well with 
you.

(The Spectator, June 5th, 1915.)

THE FRONT: 1915.

" It is as if hell were let loose."

-Letter from the Front.

ARE you in hell, my son,
While I am dreaming on this grassy hill, 
In the white blossoming 
Of England's frail sweet spring ?-
I, who no pain would shun 
To shield you from the lightest breath of ill, 
My little one.

When, as a child, you fell 
And hurt yourself on some unheeded stone, 
You raised your tearstained face 
That I might kiss the place, 
And, kissing, make it well. 
Now I am here, on this green hill, alone, 
And you-in hell.

Or is it Paradise, 
That field where brave men fight with Giant 
Wrong? Where death is changed to life 
In the heroic strife, 
The willing sacrifice 
Where Love gives sleep to those who suffer long, 
And shuts their eyes.

Nor heaven nor hell is there, 
But some dim purgatorial place between, 
Where, purified by pain, 
The spirit slips its chain, 
And, cleaving the bright air,
The young white souls, clear-eyed, august, 
serene,
Pass to God's care.

BEATRICE A. LEES.

(The Spectator, June 19th, 1915.)
26

FOR THE AIRMEN.

(Included as a tribute to the ever-glorious memory of Flight-Lieutenant Warneford, V.C.).

THOU who guidest the swallow and wren, 
Keep the paths of the flying men.

Over the mountains, over the seas, 
Thou hast given the bird-folk compasses.

Thou guidest them, yea, Thou leadest them home 
By the trackless ways and the venturesome.

Look Thou, then, on these bird-men, far 
More than the sparrows and swallows are.

When they fly in the wintry weather, 
Be their compass and chart together.

Keep them riding the wind; uphold 
Their passion for flight lest it grow cold.

Thy right hand be under the wing, 
Thy left hand for their steadying.

The wings of the birds of Heaven be nigh, 
Lest their wings fail them and they die.

Make Thou their flying as deft and fleet 
As the flight of the linnet or the blue tit.

Thy hand over them, shall they fear 
The spears of lightning or any spear?

Thy hands under them, what shall appal? 
Not the fierce foe nor the sudden fall.

Show them Thy moon at night: 
Thy stars Bid stand as sentinels in their wars.

Yea, make their lone tracks pleasant as 
A soft meandering path in grass.

Thou that launchest the wren, the swallow, 
Guard our flying loves when they follow.

KATHARINE TYNAN,

(The WindsorMagazine, July, 1915.)


IN MEMORIAM:

FLIGHT-SUB-LIEUTENANT WARNEFORD, V.C.

(Born October 15th, 1892; killed June 18th,

1915.)

O'ER Southern seas the Homeland message 
speeds
To one of Briton brood and Indian birth-
Child of the mystic sun and throbbing earth,
Who holds rich revel in adventurous deeds!
Mid spray and foam his spirit waxes strong;
Till, fired by Duty's clarion peal on high, 
He dares with Daedal wing to mount the sky,
And shoal the aerial element along;
Zealous in act ; courageous for the fray,
While glory points the steep abysmal way -!

For Man had winnowed from the fan of Time
The boon of Flight to vault the dizzy stars
To yoke the winds, and-urged by forceful Mars
Scale the vast heavens in endless upward climb:
And lo ! with ireful tears Britannia saw 
Prussia's gaunt Vampire lap the infant blood, 
And mock the sanctity of Womanhood
Blighting with licence Truth's supernal law:
The Trident shook, and from the farthest main
Loomed Empire-sons to venge the victims slain!

Earth, Air, and Ocean, vied in service true 
While justice pleaded mid the baneful strife 
Then rose the world, with grim battalions rife 
And Warneford in the vanguard proudly flew ! 
Bold was his conquest ; deathless is the 
Of how in azure field he smote the foe, 
And hurled the haughty reptile far below 
Down to the fiends-foul-writhing in its shame 
Blind as a meteor, burst upon the night, 
When lost in gloom it dips its fiery flight!


But Fate grew envious of a peerless deed
Outvaunting Jove armed with the lightning
brand
"Shall dareful fledging thus with puny hand
Challenge the ancient might to gods decreed?
Time heard, perturbed, and sealed an early doom
 Ere Youth full-blossomed to the sunny skies!
Desist, false Time !---Deeds flout thy cen-
turies
Fame smiles undying o'erthe hero's tomb 
And nobly as he gave his mortal breath,
The laurelled Warneford conquers Time and 
Death!

FREDERIC IRVING TAYLOR.
30

THE WOMEN.

BECAUSE we stand unharmed within the gate, 
And hear the roar of battle surging by;
Because it is our lot to watch and wait,
And waiting send our dearest out to die,

Is it a little thing we do, who give
Our kith and kin, our brothers, husbands, sons,
And must ourselves untouched, unwounded, live,
Whilst they are broken by the reeking guns?

It is our courage that enkindles theirs,
Our strength that holds them steady, front and 
flank,
And where the oriflamme of battle flares
Our souls, in them, go marching rank on rank.

Because we give our dearest to be food
For lyddite, shrapnel, mitrailleuse and shell,
Ungrudging send our very flesh and blood
To brim the over-brimming deeps of hell,

Amid the rattle of artillery, 
The clang of steel where sword on sabre jars,
Not they who die, not they alone, but we,
Uphold the Flag against the constant stars.

B. M. HETHERINGTON.

(The Bookman)



THE TELEGRAPH BOY.

DEATH bids his heralds go their way 
On red-rimmed bicycles to-day. 
Arrayed in blue, with streak of red, 
A boy bears tidings of the dead: 
He pedals merrily along, 
Whistling the chorus of a song; 
Passing the time of day with friends, 
Until the journey almost ends. 
Then slowing down, he scans each gate 
For the doomed name upon the plate. 
That done, he loudly knocks and rings, 
Hands in the yellow missive; sings 
His song. The maid says at the door
" No answer," and he's off once more.

* * * * * *  *

No answer through the empty years! 
No answer but a mother's tears!

EDWARD SHILLIT0.

(The Nation, June 12th, 1915.)


THE WOMAN'S TOLL.

0 MOTHER, mourning for the son who keeps 
His last dread watch by unfamiliar streams, 
Or for that other, gay of heart, who sleeps
Where the great waters guard his secret dreams,
Amid your tears take comfort for a space:
They showed them worthy of their island race.

O Wife, who heard across the wintry sea
Death's trumpet shrill for him who goes no 
more
Riding at dawn with that brave company
Whose fellowship no morning shall restore;-. 
In its dark heart your bitterest hour shall bring 
Sweets from the scattered petals of the Spring

O Maid with wondering eyes untouched of grief,
War's dreadful shadow spares your innocent 
years;
Yet shall you deem the ways of sunshine brief,
Paying, long hence, your toll of hidden tears
For love which perished ere the web was spun,
And children who shall never see the sun.

RUTH DUFFIN.

(Part Author of "The Secret Hill.")

(The Nation, May 15th, 1915.)

33

THE QUIET HEART.

OLD man, herding in the dell
Peaceful sheep with crook and bell 
Underneath a country sky, 
I wish my thoughts might pass me by, 
And leave me quiet as you are 
To love the dawn and evening star.

I saw them leave me one by one, 
My oldest to my youngest son; 
I watched them leave this quiet place 
And journey out in God's good grace. 
They rode beyond the heathered fell, 
I waved my crook and cried farewell; 
All young they were, and strong, and kind- 
I stayed at home my sheep to mind.

"One fell in Belgium, and one 
Lies 'neath a farther fiercer sun. 
One perished in his first advance, 
And gave his blood to gentle France. 
One sleeps within the ocean's brim, 
And only God has news of him. 
All, all are fallen, every one, 
My eldest to my youngest son.

"There's tending to be done at morn, 
And when the weak young lambs are born; 
On all the countryside there streams 
The light of Spring with its young dreams. 
There's some that stay that fain would go-
It pleases God to have it so. 
His will it was to take and keep, 
And leave me here to mind my sheep."

AGNES GROZIER HERBERTSON.

(The Windsor Magazine, July, 1915.)

35

PEACE.

(A sketch of two Christian soldiers, "enemies" by the accident of war, comrades in the crusade of the Prince of Peace.)

ALTHOUGH they hated not, they fiercely fought, 
Neither for hope of fame nor love of praise.
They followed War through all his dubious 
ways, 
But each the honour of his country sought, 
Counting his life as but a thing of nought.
In vain sweet Pity strove her voice to raise:
They could not, then, her harmony appraise,
Knowing that Peace by Freedom must be brought.

But lo, a change! Behold each lifeless form,
Outstretched with sightless eyes upraised above.
For ever past their time of stress and storm, 
They reach at length the same dear Fatherland. 
"In the blest kingdoms meek of joy and love." 
They enter as true brothers, hand in hand.

F. E. KENNETH.

(By special permission of the author.)


ON THE MOSS: WAR TIME.

LOUDLY, like the plash of blood 
In murder's ears that seek to close
At night in thickets tenanted 
By the fear of God,
Drip the berries of the guelder rose-
More than with September red. 
And the rowans in the wood 
Are as ravaged maidenhood,
Swaying, swaying overhead.

Through the rain upon the moss,
Evening on disorient wings
Falls from out disgodded skies, 
Falls as one who comes across
An end of all the holier things.
What was wealth to poor men's eyes, 
Day's last gold, has gone to dross. 
Darkness has a voice of loss
Lonelier than owl-cries.

In the peat pots looking down,
One wet star on the black water
Seems to watch if aught may swim 
Watch if aught may drown.
And whether as with eyes of slaughter
Or of tears, red and dim, 
Her rays put forth, may not be known, 
But by them a dead face is shown
Christ's, as they murdered him.

JOHN HELSTON.

(The Poetry Review.)



TO A FRIEND-KILLED IN ACTION.

FAIN would weep, and yet my eyes are dry;
My lips are dumb, for fear lest they should 
speak 
The hasty word, and in reproaches seek 
Revolt from God's decree that you should die. 
I know you would not ask me for my tears, 
But rather have me face with courage calm 
The lonely hours, and find some healing balm 
To fill the emptiness of future years. 
And so I pray for strength to bind my soul 
With faith unconquerable and hope divine; 
And from the grief and sorrow that are mine 
Draw cleansing grace to make my being whole. 
Thus from your loss one friend at least shall gain 
New life, to prove you have not died in vain.

HAROLD SIMPSON.

(The Poetry Review.)


ODE TO A YOUNG MAN KILLED IN FLANDERS.

JANUARY, 1915.

CAN it be true that thou art dead
In the hour of thy youth, in the day of 
thy strength ?
Must I believe thy soul has fled
Through Heaven's length?

A scholar wast thou, learn'd in lore,
Poet was written in thine eyes;
Thou ne'er vast meant for bloody War
To seize in prize.

Yet when they asked thee, Ho! what dost 
thou bring?
Thou gav'st thyself,
Thou gav'st thy body, gav'st thy soul;
Thou gav'st thyself, one consecrated whole
To sacrificial torture for thy King.

0 lovely youth, slaughtered at Life's new Dawn
In virgin purity thou liest dead, 
And slaughtered with thy sons unborn,
With thee unwed.
Sleep on, pure youth, sleep at Earth's soothing 
breast. 
No king's sarcophagus was e'er so fine 
As that poor shallow soldier's grave of thine, 
Where all ungarlanded thou tak'st thy rest.

Vengeance thou askest not, but to avenge 
Many shall come-ah! many shall be slain 
That thy rich sacrifice be not in vain. 
Then from the blood spilt shall the 
Arts arise Gaining fresh glories by thy sacrifice; 
And this shall be requital and revenge.

DYNELEY HUSSEY.

(The Poetry Review.)
40

FROM A FLEMISH GRAVEYARD.

APRIL, 1915

A YEAR hence may the grass that waves 
O'er English men in Flemish graves, 
Coating this clay with green of peace 
And softness of a year's increase, 
Be kind and lithe as English grass 
To bend and nod as the winds pass;
 It was for grass on English hills 
These bore too soon the last of ills.

And may the wind be brisk and clean 
And singing cheerfully between 
The bents a pleasantburdened song 
To cheer these English dead along; 
For English songs and English winds 
Are they that bred these English minds.

And may the circumstantial trees 
Dip, for these dead ones, in the breeze, 
And make for them their silver play 
Of spangled boughs each shiny day.

Thus may these look above, and see 
And hear the wind in grass and tree,
And watch a lark in heaven stand, 
And think themselves in their own land.

IOLO ANEURIN WILLIAMS.

(The British Review.)


FOURTH OF JUNE

THE OLD BOYS.

THEY were the life of English homes: it seems 
The victory of Death is very nigh.
Who could have dreamed last June that they 
would lie
By far Gallipoli or French neighbour streams
Fall'n in the crowning hour when youth
redeems
The pledge of boyhood? "None ultimately 
Who die for England," they have made repIy 
"We have lived to see the battles of our dreams,”

Death cannot rob them of the soldier's prize 
" Self-sacrifice. He is too weak to take 
The joy of having given from the eyes, 
The light of consecration from the brow
They have laid down their lives for England's 
sake,
They are the living soul of England now
ETON.

(The Times, June 4th, 1915)


REQUIESCANT.

BY CANON F. G. SCOTT, OF THE CANADIAN 
EXPEDITIONARY FORCE.

On lonely watches, night by night, 
Great visions burst upon my sight, 
For down the stretches of the sky 
The hosts of dead go marching by.

Strange ghostly banners o'er them float, 
Strange bugles sound an awful note, 
And all their faces and their eyes 
Are lit with starlight from the skies.

The anguish and the pain have passed 
And peace hath come to them at last 
But in the stern looks linger still 
The iron purpose and the will.

Dear Christ, who reign'st above the flood 
Of human tears and human blood, 
A weary road these men have trod 
O house them in the home of God

Near Yprès, May, 1915.

(The Times, June 19th, 1915.)


INTO BATTLE.

(The following verses have lately reached
us from a young soldier fighting in Flanders. They are signed only with his initials, but we may be permitted now to reveal the fact that they were written by Captain Julian Grenfell, whose death from wounds we regret to record this morning.-"The Times," May 28th, 1915.)

THE naked earth is warm with Spring,
And with green grass and bursting trees
Leans to the sun's gaze glorying, 
And quivers in the sunny breeze 
And Life is Colour and Warmth and Light,
And a striving evermore for these
And he is dead who will not fight;
And who dies fighting has increase.

The fighting man shall from the sun
Take warmth, and life from the glowing earth;
Speed with the light-foot winds to run,
And with the trees to newer birth 
And find, when fighting shall be done,
Great rest, and fullness after dearth.

All the bright company of Heaven 
Hold him in their high comradeship, 
The Dog-Star and the Sisters Seven,
Orion's Belt and sworded hip.

The woodland trees that stand together,
They stand to him each one a friend;
They gently speak in the windy weather;
They guide to valley and ridges' end.

The kestrel hovering by day,
And the little owls that call by night,
Bid him be swift and keen as they,
As keen of ear, as swift of sight.

The blackbird sings to him, " Brother, brother, 
If this be the last song you shall sing,
Sing well, for you may not sing another; 
Brother, sing."

In dreary doubtful waiting hours,
Before the brazen frenzy starts,
The horses show him nobler powers;
0 patient eyes, courageous hearts!

Arid when the burning moment breaks,
And all things else are out of mind,
And only Joy-of-Battle takes
film by the throat, and makes him blind,

Through joy and blindness he shall know,
Not caring much to know, that still
Nor lead nor steel shall reach him, so
That it be not the Destined Will.

The thundering line of battle stands,
And in the air Death moans and sings;
But Day shall clasp him with strong hands,
And Night shall fold him in soft wings.

Flanders, April, 1915.

(Included by permission of Lord Desborough.)

FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION."

IN MEMORIAM W. G. C. G.

ONE gave long years with heart and brain, 
One, youth's brief fiery blow, 
For freedom: whence the greater gain
Only the high gods know.

(The Times, April 16th, l9I5.)


JULIAN GRENFELL.

BECAUSE of you we will be glad and gay,
Remembering you, we will be brave and 
strong;
And hail the advent of each dangerous day,
And meet the great adventure with a song.
And, as you proudly gave your jewelled gift,
We'll give our lesser offering with a smile,
Nor falter on that path where, all too swift,
You led the way and leapt the golden stile.
Whether new paths, new heights to climb you find
Or gallop through the unfooted asphodel,
We know you know we shall not lag behind,
Nor halt to waste a moment on a tear;
And you will speed us onward with a cheer,
And wave beyond the stars that all is well.

M.B., British Expeditionary Force, France.

(The Times, June 5th, 1915.)



THE CROSSES.

BELGIUM. 1914-15.

O'ER countless mounds on wide grey plain, 
The crosses stand against the sky, 
For requiem, the sullen roar
Of cannon, as the wind sweeps by. 
And he lies there; why do we weep? 
God giveth our beloved-sleep.

What did we hope for him we loved?
Life full and fair, success, renown ? 
Nay, greater fame can no man win
Than a life laid nobly down 
For England's needs; a soldier's death 
God giveth him-the Victor's wreath

What matters Time, if he fulfilled
God's purpose in the day of need 
Outweighs a hundred empty years
One glorious hour, one noble deed 
We asked full life, 0 God, of Thee, 
And Thou didst give-Eternity!

O'er exiled dead, o'er hearts at home,
The Cross's Shadow fills the land. 
'Tis Thine the cause for which they die,
O God! their souls are in Thy Hand. 
For Country, right, and loyal word, 
We plead their sacrifice, 0 Lord!

A.B.L.

(The Observer.)


THE PATRIOT

LOW-browed, ill-nourished, fostered in a
slum,
He had no pride of birthright nor of breed;
Yet when his country's hour of stress was come
Stood up a man indeed.

The stunted mind that laboured dim and dark
Behind that narrow forehead gave small sign,
Till War reached out a hand and lit a spark,
There, of a fire divine.

And he whose heritage was alley walls,
Whose moon and stars were lurid napthalights
That blazed and flared above the crowded stalls
In Mile End Road o' nights:

Lo, he who never saw an English lawn,
Nor English fields, nor English rollers break
On English shores, has put his life in pawn
For her, for England's sake.

B. R. M. HETHERINGTON.



LIEUT. JOHN RICHARDSON.

1893-1915.

KILLED IN ACTION.

(Student of English at King's College; he left unfinished a thesis on "Albion's England "-.the Elizabethan patriotic poem-in preparation for M.A. degree of the University. When recovering from a previous wound, he asked that his copy of the Old English epic "Beowulf " might be sent him from home. The refrain from the oldest English lyric " Deor's Lament," which may be rendered, " O'er that he triumphed, o'er this may I " was chalked by him in Old English on the wall of his trench.)

THINE was no pedant's zeal: the Mother-
tongue Taught thee high dictates of thy Fatherland, 
The call no patriot-heart can e'er withstand 
Tore thee from lays by ancient poets sung. 
Well didst thou learn the lore, to thee endear'd, 
Of that young warrior who with dragons fought 
And conquer'd-steadfast, selfless, unafear'd
“Better is Death than Life with self-scorn fraught."
Not less thy courage, though thy scholar-soul 
Illum'd thy trench with mystic runes-the hope 
That solac'd in his plight our oldest Scôp 
Whose song is wrought on Britain's golden scroll. 
No greater meed wouldst thou, no prouder fame: 
In "Albion's England" is enshrined thy name!

I. GOLLANCZ.

King's College, London.

(The Observer.)
THE PATRIOT


LOW-browed, ill-nourished, fostered in a
slum,
He had no pride of birthright nor of breed;
Yet when his country's hour of stress was come
Stood up a man indeed.

The stunted mind that laboured dim and dark
Behind that narrow forehead gave small sign,
Till War reached out a hand and lit a spark,
There, of a fire divine.

And he whose heritage was alley walls,
Whose moon and stars were lurid naptha-
lights
That blazed and flared above the crowded stalls
In Mile End Road o' nights:


Lo, he who never saw an Enghsh lawn,
Nor English fields, nor English rollers break
On English shores, has put his life in pawn
For her, for England's sake.

B. R. M. HET;ILIIUNGIO




LIEUT. JOHN RICHARDSON.


1893-1915.


KILLED IN ACTION.


(Student of English at King's College; he left unfinished a thesis on "Albion's England "the Elizabethan patriotic poem-in preparation for M.A. degree of the University. When recovering from a previous wound, he asked that his copy of the Old English epic " Beowulf " might be sent him from home. The refrain from the oldest English lyric " Deor's Lament," which may be rendered, " O'er that he triumphed, o'er this may I " was chalked by him in Old English on the wall of his trench.)


THINE was no pedant's zeal: the Mother-
tongue
Taught thee high dictates of thy Fatherland,
The call no patriot-heart can e'er withstand
Tore thee from lays by ancient poets sung.
Well didst thou learn the lore, to thee endear'd,
Of that young warrior who with dragons fought
And conquer 'd-steadfast, selfless, unafear'd-
Better is Death than Life with self-scorn fraught."
Not less thy courage, though thy scholar-soul 
Illum'd thy trench with mystic runes-the hope
That solac'd in his plight our oldest Scôp
Whose song is wrought on Britain's golden scroll 
No greater meed wouldst thou, no prouder fame:
In "Albion's England" is enshrined thy name!

I. GOLLANCZ.

King's College, London.

(The Observer)





THE EXILES.

NOT the remembered scent of English air 
In thawing fields, nor English melodies, 
Nor song of English birds in English skies
Can make this England. All our house is bare;
Our lives are stopped; our hearts are other-
where,
As homesick travellers whose impatient eyes 
See only aliens: for all England lies
Where you have set your honour and her care.

The earshot of your bugle-calls at morn 
Tells England's measure now; her history 
Is in your undistinguished graves compressed 
Your deeds are all her life, your sleep her rest 
You are her only citizens, and we
Are exiles in the place where we were born.

GEORGE KELLY.

(The British Review, May, 1915.)


THE ENGLISH GRAVES.

THE rains of yesterday are flown,
And light is on the farthest hills.
The homeliest rough grass by the stone
With radiance thrills;

And the wet bank above the ditch,
Trailing its thorny bramble, shows
Soft apparitions, clustered rich,
Of the pale primrose.

The shining stillness breathes, vibrates
From simple earth to lonely sky,
A hinted wonder that awaits
The heart's reply.

0 lovely life! the chaffinch sings
High on the hazel, near and clear.
Sharp to the heart's blood sweetness springs
In the morning here.

But my heart goes with the young cloud
Which voyages the April light
Southward, across the beaches loud
And cliffs of white

To fields of France, far fields that spread
Beyond the tumbling of the waves,
And touches, as with shadowy tread,
The English graves.

There, too, is Earth that never weeps,
The unrepining Earth, that holds
The secret of a thousand sleeps,
And there unfolds

Flowers of sweet ignorance on the slope
Where strong arms dropped and blood choked 
breath;
Earth, that forgets all things but hope
And smiles on death. .

They poured their spirits out in pride;
They throbbed away the price of years;
Now that dear ground is glorified
With dreams, with tears.

A flower there is sown, to bud
And bloom beyond our loss and smart.
Noble France, at its root is blood
From Our England's heart.

LAURENCE BINYON.

(The Spectator, June 26th, 1913.)


ON THE RUE DU BOIS.

(A distinguished officer writes from the British Headquarters in France :-" I venture to send you these beautiful lines, written by Canon F. G. Scott, of Quebec, who is doing duty with the 3rd Brigade of the Canadian Division, and whose impressions which brought about the writing of these lines were gained from actual experiences in the trenches. It seems to me that such words as these should be be made known to the public, for apart from their intrinsic beauty they are full of comfort to those who are sorely stricken in this terrible war.")

0 PALLID Christ within this broken shrine,
Not those torn Hands and not that Heart 
of Thine
Have given the nations blood to drink like wine.

Through weary years and 'neath the changing 
skies,
Men turned their back on those appealing Eyes
And scorned as vain Thine awful Sacrifice.

Kings with their armies, children in their play,
Have passed unheeding down this shell-ploughed 
way,
The great world knew not where its true strength 
lay.

In pomp and luxury, in lust of gold, 
in selfish ease, in pleasures manifold,
"Evil is good, good evil," we were told.

Yet here, where nightly the great flare-lights 
gleam,
And murder stalks triumphant in their beam,
The world has wakened from its empty dream.

At last, 0 Christ, in this strange, darkened land, 
Where ruined homes lie round on every hand,
Life's deeper truths men come to understand.

For lonely graves along the countryside,
Where sleep those brave hearts who for others 
died,
Tell of life's union with the Crucified.

And new light kindles in the mourner's eyes,
Like day-dawn breaking through the rifted 
skies,
For Life is born of life's self-sacrifice.

Holy Week, Northern France.

(The Times.)

HOPE.

SINCE Death has summoned to the dark 
Beyond
Our best and bravest, and no heart dare hope
For the dim days to be-so frail, so fond
And foolish our dead dreams-we blindly 
grope
Amid a world convulsed by storm and strife,
With helpless hands, seeking our old lost 
faith,
Our vanished loves; calling in vain for life;
The answer from the reeking void is  “Death."
Nature, hast thou no part in this our pain?
No sympathy with man? Else why bestow
The smiling tears of tender April rain,
The loveliness we loved a year ago?
The golden glory of the fainting west,
The broken gleam of stars on windy seas,
The splendour of the mountain's lofty crest
Darkling against the sky, the evening breeze
Laden with perfume of an English spring,
The purple pageantry of hill and moor,
The joy of flow'rs that blow, of birds that sing,
The beauty that our hearts so loved of yore
Why flaunt them while we weep? 
Soft she replies,
“As flowers fade, suns set, and yet shall be,
So, tho' men perish, Man's spirit never dies,
But lives and grows to all Eternity."
WYNNE STEWART.

(The Woman at Home.)



"DICK."-MAY, 1915.

HE lived! deep in my heart I held him,
Son, all my own-just for a little while;
Fond mem'ry cherishes his doings,
His cheerful hurry, and his slow, shy smile.

How fled the years! How vainly I begrudged 
them,
Their claim upon the hours I craved as mine;
Yet given that he might be preparéd
To take his place, when came the hour, the 
sign.

There came, oh all too soon, the call of Empire;
Give back your sons, ye mothers of the race!
Among the first my son responded, gladly;
And proudly I, his mother, gave him place.

Gone were the years I watched him; in the 
darkness
I strove to picture this, his unsought life;
Would courage hold! nay, could the monster 
terror
Rise up and wound him in this hellish strife?

And whiles I prayed-as mothers do in secret
Although their hands are busy otherwise;
And whiles I grieved, as mothers must-in secret,
Yet none who knew me did my fears surprise.

He died! ah yes, he fell in action,
My boy who gave his life that truth might 
live; 
And though my feet must ever tread more 
softly,
Since him I see no more and yet must live;- 

He lives! deep in my heart I know it:
The life he knows is not of earthly span, 
It is the life by sacrifice attainéd,
Of God ordained ere yet the world began.

A. M. NORTHWOOD.



THE DEAD.

To ONE KILLED IN ACTION.

DEAR love, they say thou art at rest.
I heed them not, though thou art long,
Dreaming that thou, with heart still strong 
For fighting, followest some far quest.

They say, dear heart, I must forget.
Nay, though the agony be deep,
That memory can never sleep. 
Thy passioned kisses linger yet.

They say, dear love, the daisies blithe
Shall o'er thy head in summer spring.
Daisies I …. I see thy body swing 
Lithe and strong-limbed, above the scythe.

Dear love, they say that in the light
Of Heaven's joy our souls shall meet.
Dear God! I want thee now, the sweet 
Sight of thee-not in Heaven-to-night!

VIOLET GILLESPIE.

(Poems of 1914)

ANOTHER CALL TO ARMS.

TAKE up your arms, my soldier. 
You were not meant to fight, 
For Loveliness has given to you 
Her spirit of delight;

And you have fought with demons 
These armies never knew: 
The direst enemies of Life 
Have been afraid of you;

And while through sloth and weakness 
Men let the monsters loose, 
You fought for Life's great loveliness 
And sought Life's perfect use.

Yet now from your high mountain 
I bid you wend your way 
To dip your hands in carnage, 
And like Death's hireling, slay.

Arid now you stand and tremble, 
Now terror gapes at you 
Whom Courage never offered 
A task you could not do.

Take up your arms, my soldier; 
No cross of wood is yours, 
Before you reach Gethsemane 
Blood from your spirit pours.

And you shall die, my soldier, 
The day you swear to kill: 
Take up your arms, my soldier, 
And do it with a will.

For in your weakest brother 
Your soul must find a place; 
Now for that greater selfhood 
Your little self efface.

The nations move as children 
And you must be a child. 
Take up your arms, my soldier, 
Nor think your soul defiled.

Liberty in her travail 
Has pains too deep for thought; 
And many skeins are tangled 
Ere Fate's design is wrought.

Die on the cross, my soldier, 
Nor pray the cup pass by, 
For he shall rise transfigured 
Who knows the hour to die.

MAX PLOWMAN.

(The Daily News, July 12th, 1915.)


TRIBUTE TO ENGLAND'S DEATHLESS DEAD.

THEY need no dirge, for Spring-time fills 
All things with tribute unto them:
The music of the daffodils
Shall be a soldier's requiem
Among a thousand hills.

Blow, golden trumpets, mournfully,
For all the golden youth far-fled;
For all the shattered dreams that lie
Where God has laid the quiet dead
Under an alien sky.

But blow triumphant music, too,
Across the world, from sea to sea,
Because the heart of youth was true,
Because our England proved to be
Even greater than we knew.

MILDRED HUXLEY.

(The Contemperary Review, June, 1915.)



CHANT OF DEAD WARRIORS.

WE came from the ends of the Earth to the
Mother who gave to us birth,
In our eyes leapt the sunshine of mirth, through 
our veins ran the rapture of Life!
We were young, and the flame of desire still 
burned, and our hearts were afire,
Our love was intense and our ire was swiftly 
aroused, for in strife
We smote without rest, without ruth, with the 
vigour and passion of Youth,
And hated dissemblers of Truth, though our 
ways with disorder were rife.

In the silence of Death now we lie, strangely
bound 'neath an alien sky,
Life was good but 'twas better to die in the 
battle for England our Mother!
She reared us and sent us afar, recalled us and 
armed us for War-
We heard and we came and are sleeping now, 
brother with brother;
'Neath the tide of the battle we rest, with the 
fever of life unoppressed:
Of all ends 'twas the end that was best; what 
true man desired another?

We flowed as the sea-tides flow, with a roar in 
the face of the foe,
And smote them with blow upon blow, and they 
sank 'neath the furious wave; 
were swift, we were terrible, strong, and 
were filled with the fury of Wrong:
Invincible, sweeping along, no mercy we sought 
nor we gave;
Dishonoured, they feared us and fell, and the 
land they transformed into Hell
Is avenged, and our death, it was well-for with 
Glory we rode to the grave

CECIL ROBERTS.


TO THE UNKNOWN DEAD.

I.

TO all the fallen, all the nameless
Host of the unremembered slain, 
Who noteless fought and perished fameless, 
Yet won the cross- the cross of pain, 
Greeting I bring and requiem. 
May light perpetual shine on them.

In Pére Lachaise among the marbles 
I marked how human nature tires 
To gather grapes of thorns, or garbles
Sorrow with insincerities. 
Little I read but hope and praise 
Inscribed for those in Père Lachaise.

Yet flesh recoils and spirit falters 
Before the secret of the pit. 
Brave it who may, no glozing alters 
That menace in the gloom of it.
“A child's dread of the darkness!” Well, 
Is any fear more terrible ?

Auroral Lights of perished passion 
'Their streamers on the night unfurl; 
Or memory's wan moonbeams fashion
'Mid falling tears her arch of pearl; 
And still the eternal silence saith: 
Death is not otherwise than death.

-Even destruction's gulf, the lightless 
Deep which is called the outer dark, 
So void that thought itself is flightless, 
So formless that no dream for ark 
Floats on oblivion's flood to hive 
Some lingering waifs of self alive.

Wherefore, as one who makes libation, 
Between the living and the dead 
I stand, and give you salutation, 
Lords of the Terror. Who have said 
Clear words of death? If any hear 
My call, make answer! Rise! Appear!

II.

Lo ! Sphinx, the ancient wisdom, rises, 
She who avers not nor denies. 
All things she knows and all despises: 
Beyond the streaming galaxies 
Her eyes discern the end of things, 
And her smile mocks it while she sings:-

"Why for the fruit forbidden 
Of knowledge will ye forfeit life's illusion, 
Seeing ye yourselves in Maya's veil are woven? 
Seek ye the secret hidden? 
Hope is a mocker; love, the heart's confusion; 
And faith, unreasoning trust in things unproven."

"Thou for whom life seems over, 
Whose spirit haunts the wastes of time departed, 
Gaze in mine eyes which see the truth and show it. 
Behold thy love, 0 lover, 
-Thy long-lost love-grown sleek and sleepy-
hearted. 
Thou art forgot: be comforted to know it."

"And thou, whose day rejoices 
In youth and riches and the love of woman, 
Look in mine eyes. Yea, is thy pride abated, 
Beholding fate who poises 
Her scales which weigh the worth of all things 
human 
Against a little dust, 0 heart elated?”

"Farewell. Thou canst not stay nor hasten 
The flux of the eternal dream; 
Nor 'scape the hour when death shall fasten 
Upon thee in the kiss supreme, 
As on thy lips my lips are pressed 
Hard, and my talons in thy breast."

0 singer of the hollow places 
Where melancholy listless broods 
Beside forsaken tasks or paces, 
Forlorn, her echoing solitudes, 
If that indeed thou speakest sooth, 
Perish with thine ignoble truth

III.

Then to my mouth remembrance lifted 
The cup which Thule's king of old 
Was wont to drink from; and there drifted 
The music of the Bowl of Gold 
Aeolian o'er me, and I knew 
That man's inveterate hope was true.

The silver cord is loosed, and broken 
The golden bowl: again the dust 
Returns to earth." What ruth unspoken 
Wells upwards in the words august! 
What swell of the heart's bitterness 
Heaves underneath their tranquil stress!

O mourning voice, so vast and tender, 
Draping thy requiem as a pall 
Of hushed magnificence, a splendour 
Dim on the common doom of all, 
Thine is indeed a gentle word 
For death--the loosened silver cord.

But for the dead thou hast no pan, 
No laurel crown, no branch of palm, 
Only a threnody lethean 
Serene in all-surrendering calm;
And, like a bell that surges toll, 
The burden of the Golden Bowl.

Yet rises up the old misgiving:
Is it song's sorcery that transmutes 
To gold the pitcher-sherds which, living, 
Were earthier of the earth than brutes ? 
Can this be said of such as they, 
Poor cruses of coarse-shapen clay?

Gold? So the phrase is, thus miscalling 
That swarming life, obscure and null, 
Rolled by the river ever falling 
Into an ocean never full. 
-Drift and drab ooze to floor the sea 
Whose waters are eternity.

IV.

Before me rose austere, impassive, 
A cliff-like scarp of limestone grey. 
Lofty it stood, a barrier massive 
Athwart the cypress-bordered way; 
And on the face of it a gloom 
Which seemed a cavern or a tomb.

And sculptured shapes of man and maiden 
By that dark entrance I beheld. 
One knelt in prayer; one, overladen 
With the numb miseries of eld, 
Submissive bowed. Another bent 
Earthward her face. Some crouched or 
leant

Clinging together as the haven 
Of nothingness they gathered nigh. 
But under them these words engraven 
Spake for the sculptor's imagery: 
"They that in darkness sat have seen 
Great light." And I descried between

The frowning walls two lovers sleeping 
As though the Everlasting Arms 
Indeed were under them and keeping 
Far from their rest all needs and harms. 
And light which seemed no light of day 
Dwelt on them like the Shekinah.

The poppy of oblivion covers 
The legend and the name of these. 
Roses lie strewn by pilgrim-lovers 
On Abélard and Héloise 
Summer on summer, year by year, 
But never a blossom withers here.

For to the weak, the world-defeated, 
Bound on the Ixionian wheel 
Of toil, or trodden down and treated 
As dross that clogs our age of steel;
Ay, and when dead, like worthless dross 
Whose bodies fill the common fosse,

The lives awry, the misbegotten, 
Foredoomed to failure from their birth, 
With stunted soul and body rotten, 
The disinherited of earth, 
This monument of limestone grey 
Was carven by Bartholomé.

V.

Why tinsel truth to mimic glory, 
Making pretence each valiant deed 
And death shall live renowned in story 
While men by generations bleed? 
A list, a number and a name-
Such is the recompense of fame!

Fame! When through death's tremendous 
portal 
The soul emerging fronts the Sea 
Of Light, and skims on wings immortal
Its waves of shimmering melody, 
What will she care if men below 
Extol her earthly name or no?

The periods of the panegyric 
May roll sonorous over them 
Who had small praise in life; the lyric 
May crown, as crowns a diadem 
The empty catafalque. But they, 
Who died for us, are far away
JOHN GURDON.



THE SHADOW.

FOR THE MOURNERS OF THE SLAIN.

AWHILE I dreamed: to me an angel came,
Bright with the glory of the dawn's first 
flame; 
But as he paus'd ever beside him stood 
A ghastly spectre, grim in robe and hood.

The first one brought a wondrous sense of peace, 
As if his voice could bid all sorrow cease. 
He wore immortal roses in his hair, 
And when he smiled I knew how heaven was fair.

The second, scowling, as he hurried past 
Athwart the sun a blighting shadow cast; 
And where he walked, with grim averted head, 
The very grass had withered 'neath his tread.

“Who art thou? say!" unto the first I cried.
“I am God's servant, Death," soft tones replied.
“And that dread shape which ever walks with 
thee?”
“That is, alas! man's fearful dream of me."

IDA MAY.

(The Woman at Home.)

A GRAVE IN FLANDERS. 
BY THE MARQUESS OF CREWE.

HERE in the marshland, past the battered 
bridge,
One of a hundred grains untimely sown,
Here with his comrades of the hard-won ridge, 
He rests, unknown.

His horoscope had seemed so plainly drawn:-
School triumphs, earned apace in work and 
play:
Friendships at will; then love's delightful dawn 
And mellowing day;

Home fostering hope; some service to the State;
Benignant age; then the long tryst to keep
There in the yew-tree shadow congregate 
His fathers sleep.

Was the one thing needful to distil
From life's alembic, through this holier fate,
The man's essential soul, the hero will? 
We ask; and wait.

(The Harrovian)

ALL SOULS.

THERE'S traffic in the worlds immortal, 
For many souls are flying home;
Striving and pushing at the portal
For sight of glorious things to come.

What rout of wings against the sunset!
What rosy plumes the dawning bar!
Heaven's stormed with gay and happy onset
Of youngling things home from the War.

Against the inverted cup of azure,
Against the evening, peach and green,
The frolicsome young souls take their pleasure,
Darting the silver stars between.

Though the old nests be sad, forsaken,
The cotes of Heaven are yet unfilled:
In trees of Heaven as yet untaken
The immortal Loves begin to build.

KATHARINE TYNAN.

(British Review, May, 1915.)


RECRUTIS ON THE ROAD TO OXFORD.

THEY passed in dusty black defile 
Along the burning champaign's edge, 
Where English oaks for many a mile
Dripped acorns o'er the berried hedge.

With valorous smiles on faces soiled, 
Out of the autumn's heat and light, 
These who on English earth had toiled 
Came forth for English earth to fight.

Round their descending flank out-spread 
The country like a painted page-
God's truth, a man were lightly dead 
For such a golden heritage!

But these, the surging centuries' wrack 
Beyond all tides auspicious thrown, 
Doomed with bowed head and thread-bare 
back 
To till the land they might not own;

Reft of the swallow's tranquil lease, 
Reft of the scrap-fed robin's dole-
How have these reared in starveling peace 
This flaming valiancy of soul? …

O England, when with fluttered breath 
You greet the victory they earn, 
And when with eyes that look on death 
This remnant of your sons return,

On your inviolate soil repent, 
And give the guerdon unbesought
To these whose lives were freely lent 
Some share of that for which they fought!

HELEN PARRY EDEN.

(The Westminster Gazette.)

POSTLUDE: FROM AMERICA.

LORD God, we pray for peace! We lift our plea
That to these shores the red tide shall not 
roll.
Yet first we ask this greater boon of Thee-
This greater boon, still dearer to our soul:

That peace shall not be ours if peace be base;
That ease shall not be ours if ease be shame;
That Thou wilt teach us, if we must, to face
The wrath and wrack, the fury and the flame.

Point us the way of service, mighty Lord!
Help us to see the high thing we must do;
And if, to serve, we must unsheathe the sword,
Nerve heart and arm to see the dread task 
through.

Dear God, we pray for peace; but first we pray
That this our country, loved by us so well,
Shall not from Duty turn her face away-
Shall notlose hope of Heaven for fear of Hell.

H. S.

(The Spectator, June 19th, 1915)
