THE DREAM

(For my Father)

OVER and over again I dream a dream,

I am coming home to you in the starlit gloam;

Long was the day from you and sweet 'twill seem

The day is over and I am coming home.

Then I shall find you as in days long past,

Sitting so quietly in the firelight glow;

"Love," you will say to me, "you are come at last."

Your eyes be glad of me as long ago.

All I have won since then will slip my hold,

Dear love and children, the long years away;

I shall come home to you the girl of old,

Glad to come home to you-oh, glad to stay!

Often and often I am dreaming yet

Of the firelit window when I've crossed the hill

And I coming home to you from night and wet:

Often and often I am dreaming still.
Over and over again I dream my dream.

Ah, why would it haunt me if it wasn't true?

I am travelling home to you by the last red gleam,

In the quiet evening I am finding you.

THE MOTHER GIVES UP HER DAUGHTER

THOUGH I must yield her up to you, her lover,

I have had sweetness more than you can know,

The little great-eyed maid beyond recover,

And all her tender worship long ago.

Oh, you are wild for her and little wonder!

She is so fair, so honest, kind and true.

But in the lonely house I sit and ponder

On what was mine and shall not pass to you.

Oh, little darling, how the years went flying,

And I her moon, her stars, her heart's delight

I hardly knew my loss and the dear dying

Of lovely childhood with the day and night.

Take her-oh, she is sweet beyond all praises!

You shall not have her childhood sweeter still,

Gone with the dancing daffodils and daisies,

Where she was mine upon a heavenly hill.
THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN

THERE'S a Little Old Woman walks in the night,

Singing her love song like a falling keen;

The Little Old Woman is the heart's delight,

With the gold crown under her hood to tell her queen.

The Little Old Woman's coming up this way,

Playing on her harp-strings a magic air;

There's this one and that one, they may not stay,

Stealing out in the night after the player.

The Little Old Woman is at the door,

Though 'tis a queen she is, in rags she goes,

Open the door to her, long-waited for!

Oh, Love and Delight you are, the Dear Black Rose.

The Little Old Woman she is begging bread;

She shall never go hungry while the ages pass,

With the love of her lovers she shall be fed

And their hearts lie under her feet in the green grass.

They go from the lit board and the fire of peat

And the dreams and the longing stir in the blood. Sweet to be poor with her, yea, death is sweet,

For the Dear Rose of Beauty in the beggar's hood.
VIGIL

AT night, when all the house is still,

Wide-waked the chairs and tables come

And yawn and stretch their limbs until

The maids appear with pan and broom.

Through the dim hours they creak and groan,

Their laughter plays with tyrant Man,

Shaken with stiff derision

For his pretensions and his span.

Where's then their willing servitude ?

Meek slaves for their creator's use.

They make a mock of flesh and blood

That passes with a morning's dews.

The heart that once leaped in the tree

Yet lives in the fantastic shapes

That foolish Man hath made to be

But see how wide yon cupboard gapes!

With " Yours" and "Mine" they make great sport, Who saw us come and see us go, And will be when no least report

Of us but what a stone can show.

When ghosts and owlets flit abroad, The furniture's awake, aware, The floor complaining of its load,

And what a creaking of the stair!
THE GARDEN

I KNOW a garden like a child, Clean and new-washed and reconciled. It grows its own sweet way, yet still Has guidance of some tender will That clips, confines, its wilder mood And makes it happy, being good.

Around the lordly mountains stand, For this is an enchanted land, As though their splendours stood to grace This little lovely garden place, Looking with wise and keeping eyes Upon the garden sanctities.

Box borders edge each little bed, Paths narrow for a child to tread Divide the kitchen garden, dear And sweet with musk and lavender, And water-mints and beans in bloom. Be sure the honeybee's at home.

How should I tell in a sweet list Of beauties, rose and amethyst; The little water-garden cool On sultry days, and beautiful The wall-garden, the shade, the sun, Since they are lovely, every one.

Hot honey of the pines is sweet, And when the day's at three o'clock heat A winding walk will you invite To a new garden out of sight. And a green seat is set so near The sluggish, stealing backwater.

The Spirit of the garden plays At hide-and-seek an hundred ways And when you've captured her, she will Elude you, calling backward still, A silver echo-a sweet child, Demure and lovesome, gay and wild.
WIND

o Wind, I cannot see you pass,

And yet I feel you as you go

Around the world and every place,

Shouting and singing loud and low.

Your breath, your touch, is on my cheeks,

Such soft caressing finger-tips

Can it be you whose anger wrecks

The high trees and the tallest ships ?

You run so light o'er field and hill,

You shake no frailest blossom down,

And yet make havoc when you will

O'er land and sea, in country and town.

I hear you waking up from sleep

Over the hills and far away,

You giant, roaring as you leap

O'er lambs and daisies at their play,

o Wind, your name makes music sweet

You are a lovely thing, 0 Wind!

And how the world were incomplete

Without your unseen presence kind.

For now your arms are round my neck,

And now your buffets are too rough.

And your sharp kisses on my cheek,

And your fierce clasp and your wild love.

The fool hath said it in his heart

There are no miracles. 0 Wing

Confute him when you fly apart

Close-felt, beloved, invisible Thing.
MENACE

OH, when the land is white as milk

With bloom that lets no leaf between, ."When trees are clad in grass-green silk

And thrushes sing in a gold screen:

What is it ails Dark Rosaleen

Why is the banshee in the night

Crying for all the young men gone

Now when the world with bloom is white,

When the good sun's warm on the stone,

Why does the Woman of Death make moan

As one who is not comforted,

I heard in every lonely glen

Dark Rosaleen cry for her dead

And for her dying race of men.

Dark Rosaleen, take heart again

For, oh, there's God in His high place

And Patrick seated by His side

To judge with Him the Irish race;

And Columcille, Kieran and Bride

Shall not forget before God's Face.

There's Mary of the Seven Swords,

Queen of the Gael-oh, many a saint,

With Oliver Plunkett to look towards

The Mercy Seat, with praise and plaint,

For Rosaleen, ever the Lord's.

Oh; weep no more, Dark Rosaleen! Menace and terror pass you by. Oh, loved beyond the sceptred queen, Dark Rosaleen for whom men die And loved till death, Dark Rosaleen.
WINGS IN THE NIGHT

Now in the soft spring midnight

There's rush of wings and whirr,

Birds flying softly, swiftly;

The night's a-flutter, a-stir.

Home by the bitter seas,

They have sped home together.

So glad to be coming home

To the grey hills, the grey weather.

Calling and calling softly

One lights by the window-pane:

The rook, weary with building,

Turns to his sleep again.

Ere ever the moor-hens wake

And the wild duck come in,

The birds are about the house

With a long çMl and thin.

WINGS IN THE NIGHT

They have wakened the wood-pigeon

To make her plaintive moan, The wood-pigeon lamenting

For sorrows not her own.

Oh, they are never birds,

But souls of men on the wind, Seeking the mother's breast,

The heart that is soft and kind.

Souls of the Irish dead,

Flown from the fields of slaughter, Home to the mother's arms

Over the wild grey water.
THE REFUGE

I WILL lift mine eyes to the mountains,

To the mountains whence cometh my aid;

I shall drink of the Mercy's crystal fountains,

And shall not be afraid.

St. Patrick and St. Bride be with me,

And all the saints of the Gael;

The wings of Heaven above and beneath me,

The dead of Inisfail.

The caves of the mountains shall receive me,

I shall lie as at a mother's breast

The white food the King of Heaven shall give me,

And the wine of Heaven for feast.

Where the eagle screams over Nephin,

Where the Reek of Patrick looks on the isles,

li-orn the voices of the world that fret and deafen,

From the evil l.r'ni1es,

THE REFUGE  93

I shall creep, and the mountains will hold me, As a lamb that runs with the ewe,

The warmth of the mother shall enfold me, I shall have milk and dew.
EVENING

(In Connaught)

GOLD from the edges of the horizon flowing, A great and golden sea:

The light's spilled out of heaven and flowing, growing A gold immensity.

The sea-bird now has gotten a golden feather, Gold are the Hundred Isles,

Gold the white cabin like a cloud at tether Where the long evening smiles.

The water-bird floats on the golden water, Golden her wings and crest

As she were Fionnuala, the King's daughter, Preening a golden breast.

The bog-pools now are fringed with golden lances, The bog-cotton's aflame;

Gold are the mountains that were purple as pansies, Since the wild heather came.

EVENING

Oh, Heaven's o'er-arched with gold, that washing, flooding,

Drenches, with golden rain The Dark Rose in her splendour, dreaming, brooding,

That she is crowned again.
AFTER ASCENSION

THOSE twelve years from Ascension

Until the day of meeting broke,

She was not so much all alone

As it might seem to common folk,

Because no day passed without bliss:

He gives Himself back to her kiss.

He comes no more in human guise,

Yet He is in their midst again.

His wounds are there in all men's eyes,

So doubting Thomas sees them plain;

They pour the Wine and break the Bread,

And the heart's hunger's comforted.

The Apostle takes the Cup of Wine,

The white Bread on the paten bright,

0 Food of angels dear, divine!

The Lord of Life comes down in light,

And sweeter than the honeycomb

Rests in the heart that was His home.

Give place I His Mother's claim is first Her arms embrace her Son once more: On the kind breast where He was nurst

He hath sweet ease as oft before. Morn after morn, through the twelve years, His love makes rapture of her tears.

She guards the youngling Church as once She kept her small Son while He grew, Safe sheltered from the winds and suns,

Comforted with soft rain and dew; Till it's full-grown and she is free For the long bliss that is to be.
COLOURS

BLUES and greens are my delight Set in garlands of the white.

When God made the violet He made nothing better yet.

Lilac and the lavender Fit for queens of Heaven to wear.

Many russets and the rose, God be praised for these and those

For the silvers and the greys Likewise ye shall give Him praise.

Scarlet is a King's colour That the King of Kings once wore.

Yet when everything is said, Bring me neither rose nor red.

Give me blue and green below, Apple bloom and cherry snow.

Blue forget-me-nots beneath Pear and ,lum-bloom in a wreath.

Or wild hyacinths in a glade Nothing better God has made.

Blues and greens and a white bough Turn the earth to Heaven now.
EPIPHANY

(For Dora, 1918)

SHE carried frankincense and gold

When the Star guided her,

And in her folded hands so cold

She carried myrrh.

Frankincense for the praise she owed,

Gold for her gift was meet,

But myrrh because so oft her road Was bitter-sweet.

Lay her tired body in that earth

Was holy to her mind!

But the bird-soul flies in high mirth, Borne on the wind.

It tosses in the Irish skies

Awhile, so small and white,

Ere it is gone-swiftly it flies Into the light.

She has gone in with the Three Kings, In silk and miniver;

The gold, the frankincense she brings, The sharp-sweet myrrh.
THE IMAGE

WHEN a wild grace I see,

A turn o' the neck, a curl, sweet hands, clear eyes, Gentleness, courtesy, dignity

In all these gifts Thee I surmise, surprise.

All beauty and delight.

Skin like a rose, a beauteous shape, an air Free and enchanting, give my weary sight

Glimpses of Thee, Thou Beauty past compare.

Strength, courage also are Thine.

And joy of youth and wings that cleave the blue, Low singing and soft voices, I divine

In these Thy beauty ancient yet ever new.

Oh, when my startled eye

Perceives this beauty league-long, sea and isle Aud eagle-crested mountains wild and high,

I catch Thy Maker's thought-I see Thy smile.

Some mirror out of range

Flashes reflex of Heaven on this sweet earth,

Brooding for ever, beautiful, without change,

The blue-bell sea, the thousand streams' soft mirth.

All beauty is of Thee.

Kindness and quietness, moon and stars and sun,

Gardens and woods, the bird in the new-fledged tree

And sleep, 0 Kindest One!
THE AERODROME

So now the aerodrome goes up Upon my father's fields,

And gone is all the golden crop And all the pleasant yields.

They tear the trees up, branch and root, They kill the hedges green,

As though some force, malign and brute, Ravaged the peace serene.

There where he used to sit and gaze With blue and quiet eyes,

Watching his comely cattle graze, The walls begin to rise.

What place for robin or for wren, For thrush and blackbird's call

Now there shall be but flying men Nor any bird at all.

'Twas well he did not stay to know, Defaced and all defiled The quiet fields of long ago, Dear to him as a child.

But when the tale was told to me I felt such piercing pain,

They tore my heart up with the tree That will not leaf again.
A SONG OF GOING

I WOULD not like to live to be very old, To be stripped cold and bare

Of all my leafage that was green and gold In the delicious air.

I would not choose to live to be left alone, The children gone away,

And the true love that I have leant upon No more my staff and stay.

I would not live to stretch my shrivelled hands To an old fire died low,

Minding me of the long-lost happy lands And children long ago.

Let me be gone while I am leafy yet And while my birds still sing,

Lest leafless, birdless, my dull heart forget TH- cv it had Spring.
