•	Preface

		AN Introduction to this second series of " Soldier
			Poets" is superfluous. What was said by way of
		Foreword to the original volume is equally true of its
		successor. There is the less need for repetition because
		that original Introduction and the poems that followed
		have been the text of many articles, sermons, and speeches,
		including an address by the President of the Board of
		Education, who allows us to paraphrase his remarks on
		the characteristic features, already noted, of the remark-
	All Rights Reserved,	able outburst of lyrical poetry from the seat of war.
	Copyright in the United States of America by Ershine Macdonald, Ltd.	The poems are remarkedly individual, he pointed out
	First Published December, 1917-	they are entirely free from hate and execration. There
is no reviling of the enemy. Our young soldiers look to	U
	II
poetry as a deliverance from the grim necessities of the
hour rather than as a means of expressing martial emotion.
They do not gush concerning patriotism, but they feel it	I I
none the less, and express it soberly, seriously, and with
intense conviction.
	The same characteristics, the same yearning over the
beloved country left behind and of tender feeling for parents and home, are found in all the poems that have come to us from men in the fighting forces since the former volume was collected. And here we may repeat, that while these volumes are typical of the lyrical efflores-
	JUL 12	)
cence of the fighting men, they do not pretend to be exhaustive : the larger task of sifting already published
work and compiling a more complete anthology has been undertaken by a devoted advocate of the significance of he soldier poets' work and its claim to recognition.
-		soe	- -
All Rights Reserved. Copyright in the United States of America by Ershine Macdonald, Ltd. First Published December, .1917.

C00T UNIVep JUL 12

Preface

N Introduction to this second series of Soldier Poets " is superfluous. What was said by way of Foreword to the original volume is equally true of its successor. There is the less need for repetition because that original Introduction and the poems that followed have been the text of many articles, sermons, and speeches, including an address by the President of the Board of Education, who allows us to paraphrase his remarks on the characteristic features, already noted, of the remarkable outburst of lyrical poetry from the seat of war. The poems are remarkedly individual, he pointed out

they are entirely free from hate and execration. There is no reviling of the enemy. Our young soldiers look to poetry as a deliverance from the grim necessities of the hour rather than as a means of expressing martial emotion. They do not gush concerning patriotism, but they feel it none the less, and express it soberly, seriously, and with intense conviction.

The same characteristics, the same yearning over the beloved country left behind and of tender feeling for parents and home, are found in all the poems that have come to us from men in the fighting forces since the former volume was collected. And here we may repeat, that while these volumes are typical of the lyrical efflorescence of the fighting men, they do not pretend to be exhaustive : the larger task of sifting already published work and compiling a more complete anthology has been undertaken by a devoted advocate of the significance of he soldier poets' work and its claim to recognition.
Preface

We builded better than we knew when we issued the original volume as the climax of our proud association with the soldier poets : it was a greater thing than we were then aware of. No literary work of our day has possessed so much genetic force or been of greater influence. It was well said that " Soldier Poets " was of greater service to the Allied cause in America than many Blue Books and specially prepared statements: it showed the high clean spirit of ardent, generous youth engaged on a new Crusade. These songs before sunrise gave fresh vitality to poetry and were welcomed by a nation on the eve of rebirth as the promise of a greater intensity of living, a finer perception of beauty, a clearer vision of the undying splendour after the weary days in which life and art had become dreary and meaningless to the multitude. Now the birththroes have become more severe, the spiritual quickening more accentuated, more and inure of the poems are personal threnodies, and the ontinel graves of the Poetry Review young men who rcsponded to the call in 1914 now consecrate the long line from Nieuport to Basra. They are a more glorious and more numerous company than the Elizabethans, with whom, in the great comradeship beyond the grave, they still march, an invisible army, with their brothers-inarms who continue the material and spiritual warfare Lre in the flesh, inspiring and directing the fight that will not end with the war.

GALLOWAY KYLE.

FE Poiiy REVIEw," W.C.

YJJ SjFn' Day, 1917.

8

Contents PAGE

Lnsc DE BANZIE, Sapper, RE.The Gift . . . . . . 5 PAUL BEWSHRR, Sub.-Lieut., R.N.A.S.The Dawn Patrol . . . . . iG

COLLIN BROOKS, Sergeant, M.G.C.

To Another Poor Poet . . . . IS

CARROLL CARSTAIRS, Lieut., Grenadier Guards

Death in France . . . . . '9 The Lover's Mood . . . . . 20 Life and Death . . . . . 20 ERNEST K. CHALLENGER, Corporal, RE.The Harvest . . . . . . 21 ERIC CHILMAN, Private, East YorksAfterdays . . . . . . 27

A. NEWEERRY CHOYCE, Lieut., Leicestershire RegimentSupermen . . . . . . 28 Reincarnation . . . . . 29 Loss . . . . . . . 31 RItGINALO F. CLEMENT5, Sec. Lieut., Royal Sussex Regimentimmortality . . . . . . 33 Finis Coronat Opus . . . . 34

9
Contents

FAGF

1 RS0N, Private, Seaforth HighlandersPeace . . . . . . . 124 Arras . . . . . . . 125

RICHARD RALEIGH," Sec. Lieut., 0. and B. L.I.

A Soldier's Litany . . . . . 127 K. M. SCOBIE, Sec. Lieut., R.G.A.-Lunae . . . . . . . 129 R. HOWARD SPRING, Corporal, A.S.C.Hic Jacet . . . . . . 13! Sonnet. . . . . . . 132 At Sunset September, 1917 . . . 132 The Bells . . . . . . 133

E. STEWART, M.C., Captain, Border RegimentBefore Action . . . . . 136 Renascence . . . . . . 137 Courage . . . . . . 138

RIC FITZWALTER WILKINSON, MC., Captain, West Yorks

To a Choir of Birds . . . . iç

\\rALTER LIGHTOWLER WILKINSON, Lieut., 8th

Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders

A Lament from the Dead . . . 140 The Wayside Burial . . 142 At Last Post . . . . . 143

Night in War Time . . . . 144

ERIC DE BANZIE

SAPPER, RE.

The Gift

H, I have known the dreams of youth then what

The dead, long, useless years gave promise of;

Remnants I'll humbly gift thee-all I've got,

Which thy sweet thanks shall be the solace of."

Thus spake a restless mind all out of tune

With souls and thoughts the world could offer him.

Thou know'st he thanked Thee, God, for War's grand boon

The end, the glory, England proffered him.

The sorrow of his going matters not;

Only the fierce high glow that in his heart

Lit up those remnants that a rifle shot

Filched from an England who was grieved to part.

Alway, the nobleness that England gives Rescinds her royal gift-so England lives

leAN CL.

Is
PAUL BEWSHER D.S.C., SUB-LIEUT., R.N.A.S,, FRAN CF

The Dawn Patrol

SOMETIMES I fly at dawn above the sea, Where, underneath, the restless waters flow Silver, and cold, and slow. Dim in the east there burns a new-born sun, Whose rosy gleams along the ripples run, Save where the mist droops low, Hiding the level loneliness from me.

And now appears beneath the milk-white haze A little fleet of anchored ships, which lie In clustered company, And seem as they are yet fast bound by sleep, Although the day has long begun to peep, With red-inflamed eye, Along the still, deserted ocean ways.

The fresh, cold wind of dawn blows on my face As in the sun's raw heart I swiftly fly, And watch the seas glide by. 16

Paul Bewshcr

Scarce human seem I, moving through the skies,

And far removed from warlike enterpriseLike some great gull on high

Whose white and gleaming wings beat on through space.

Then do I feel with God quite, quite alone,

High in the virgin morn, so white and still, And free from human ill:

My prayers transcend my feeble earth-bound plaints

As though I sang among the happy Saints With many a holy thrill

As though the glowing sun were God's bright Throne.

My flight is done. I cross the line of foam

That breaks around a town of grey and red, Whose streets and squares lie dead

Beneath the silent dawn-then am I proud

That England's peace to guard I am allowed; Then bow my humble head,

In thanks to Him Who brings me safely home.

B'7
COLLIN BROOl' LJ GLANT, MACHINE Gi

To Another Poor Poet

SHALL God forget these darkling years we spend In poverty and misery and toil Unlit save by a glint of faëry spoil That gleams and leads us, steadfast, to His end, The darkling years when only Hope is friend To Courage who, from where our foes embroil, Still calls us onward-onward tho' the soil Engulf both us and all that we defend?

The spoken word holds true: the swords we wield Upended show the Cross that, potent yet, Shall prove each wound we suffer on the field No sacrifice made vainly to abet A senseless purpose. Wait but for the yield Of all our toil and-God shall not forget.

iS

CARROLL CARSTAIRS

LIEUT., GRENADIER GUARDS

Death in France

I f should die while I am yet in France

Before the battle clouds have rolled away, Give me to feel that death will but enhance Life's secret vision on its passing day. Grant then to me new, individual power In reverie, whilst whimsically I trace Thro' eager, breathless youth, each pulsing hour, The light and shadow on its fading face. And in death's soonest minute let me seek Life heightened by new splendour, poise, surprise, New colour flushing deep its paling cheek, New wonder looking from its tired eyes. Time's brought a rare patine to old RomanceDeath has an ancient dignity in France.

IRANcE, November, 1916.

19
More Songs by the Fighting Men

The Lover's Mood

I SAID a careless word, then miserably

Repented, asked forgiveness in sweet rhyme lour face had clouded so, and suddenly 1'he day had grown a-weary ere her time.

Life and Death

I F death should come with his cold, hasty kiss

Along the trench or in the battle strife, Il ask of death no greater boon than this: hat it shall be as wonderful as life.

IRNEST K. CHALLENGFR CORPORAL, R.E.

The Harvest

SHADOWLESS lies the land Under the sun, Only the poplars stand With moveless boughs in the heat That broods o'er the blackened wheat And the ground so hardly won.

No other tree in the waste. They only stand Where the straight white road is traced Athwart the land. And ever under the sky Do the slow-winged birds go byThe slow black birds of prey That wait but the close of day For the night to bring them food.

The curse of the heat is here, And the curse of blood. Cold-lipped, and with eyes of fear, Neath the sun's flood 21
More Songs by the Fighting Men

Wanders the spirit of death And e'en in the burning noon is an icy breath And the red of the west is to me like the redness of blood.

The village is still as the heat, From the ruined houses start The rats across the street.There is never another sound, For the guns are silent to-day, And the endless lines of men that are bound For the place of death and the nameless mound Have taken another way.

At the end of the ruined street Roodless the church yet stands To the God men praise with their lips While they mock Him with their hands; With hands that have scrawled for sport Their jests on the altar-stone, And their ribald words on the lips of Christ, The marred Christ hanging alone.

Who has measured pain, And who has a plumb for that sea Where the soul shall know again Its own immensity?

22

Ernest K. Challenger

For the voice of the mind is dumb, But the voice of the soul is heard, Where the wild dark waters are come And the face of man's sky is blurred.

Who shall say "Lo here Shall the glory of war be found, That a nation arose without fear And smote her foe to the ground For the wrong that he dared to dream, And the hell that he wrought on earth; That she pressed after Honour's gleam Though it led to a land of dearth"?

Who has measured wrong, And who shall assign it a bond? Where the scornful might of the strong And the cry of the weak be foundSay, is the tale complete? Ah! myriad wrongs spring up Where one has set its feet, And the earth is a poisoned cup Where the goodly wine brings death, And one drop of venom there Shall poison- the very breath Of the winds in the upper air. 23
More Songs by the Fighting Men

What of the men who died

SI

tout-hearted and steadfast-eyed For the good they might not share And the goal to them denied? For the lamp they strove to bear Should light another's way, And the boon that they might not share Is the boon we hold to-day.

What of the god-like men Who lie in the dust to-day For the dreams that we hold so light And the hope that we fling away? AhI shall we not vex their sleep, We men of the lesser mould, Who sully the name they bled to keep, And the honour they died to hold?

A thousand ages ago Man fought with the axe of stone That the many might seize the thing they loved From the few, and hold it alone. For the will of the strong was law And the right of the weak was death When man was one with the beasts of the earth And battled with them for breath. 24

Ernest K. Challenger

And to-day with their coward lips Men prate of love in their creeds, And a thousand times today Do they spurn her with their deeds. For we talk of the law of truth While our God is the law of might, And the will of the strongest there J the thing we hold as right.

What have we gained with the years, But the greater power to lie We, who speak of the truth, Smooth-voiced and with side-long eye; Better the axe of stone And the feet on the weakest throat Than the lying lips and the coward thrust And the stealthy eyes that gloat.

Now for the one's desire shall the many be crucified On the cross of a lawless power With the nails of a soulless pride. And the wrong goes deeper yet, Aye, deep as the springs of life, And has blossomed out at the Test of pride Ii the deadly flower of strife. 25
More Songs by the Fighting Men

And nothing shall purge the land \\ here the curse of sin has stood Bit the purge of the whetted steel And the drench of blood. \\hile perchance at the end shall Peace Her impotent pinions spread O'er the ruined home and the smoking land And the blank eyes of our dead.

Hark !-through the lazy air Comes the sound of guns again. Once more man reaps with a sickle of fire The harvest of the slain.

PONT D'EssARs, FRANCE.

26

ERIC CHILMAN iinVKI L, FAST YORK

After-days

WHEN the last gun has long withheld Its thunder, and its mouth is sealed,

Strong men shall drive the furrow straight On some remembered battlefield.

Untroubled they shall hear the loud And gusty driving of the rains, And birds with immemorial voice Sing as of old in leafy lanes.

The stricken, tainted soil shall be Again a flowery paradise

Pure with the memory of the dead And purer for their sacrifice.

27
A.NEWI

LIEUT., LEICESTERSHIRE R1GIM1L

Supermen

SOME souls there are Who in their trial hours Bathe in the very blood Which flows around the heart of T And know its joy-and know its agony. Daring to follow impulse That any God Himself would not resist.

Stand back! You weaklings of the world Boasting the name of men. Preening yourselves And judging with your "God this---" and "God that-" Dare not to come Near these.

Stay with your narrow Gods Who smugly sit Within four chapel walls On Sundays, 28

-, Newberry Choyce

You in some stiff God's house Who kneel and shiver Towards a judgment day Of your own setting.

But if a Destiny too kind Bring you for one short second Closer to wisdom; To the breathing hills and spaces Where my God lives And makes His Throne in every leaf and IIo\\ er And whispers in each wind, Then I will tell you thisThat my God is so great I doubt if He will dare To judge these souls.

Reincarnation

I LOVED you in Babylon.

Sweet Heart ! you were a dancer then \nd I watched where your little feet just stirred the dust within the market-place. You passed me slow and down the sunlit street, a\v the longing in the eyes of mcii
