More Songs by the Fighting Men

Who caught the smile which glorified your face. A moment-little heart !-and you were gone But where you passed-you knew it notI marked and kissed the spot.

I loved you in royal Rome. Sweet Heart you were a vestal there And I came to offer my gift. A poor slave with a pigeon dearly bought, Its feathers purer than snow's whitest drift. With fevered soul I made my silent prayer Though I could never touch the bliss I sought, While holy Vesta's temple was your home. A feather fell-how should you see Till death it stayed with me.

1 love you in London town. Sweet Heart you are a princess now And the blue blood runs in your veins; \Vlule I, alas am but of common birth Whom war is splashing with its crimson stains. A soldier who has taken Honour's vow To share the grandest task on God's wide earth. One night you wore red roses in your gown. \ petal dropped-you never guessedI hid it in my breast.

30

A. Newberry Choyce

So shall I still love on. Sweet Heart your soul was close to me When the world's first dreams were made. We two were whispering love at God's own side Or ever sunlight on the mountains played. And through a wilderness of worlds I see A time when reunited we shall glide Unto the Soul of souls, the Perfect One. Pass, life or lives ! you'll understand When Love gives me your hand.

Loss

THE world went blind to-day Groping with shattered faith. And in the lonely awful night Madness stalked, taunting me. The gibbering ghoulish wraith Of dreams unrealised Sprang up and mocked my way; Just that in one wild spot beyond the sea, A dear heart that I prized Passed to the Silent Light.

31
More Songs by the Fighting Mcii

They say his soul lives onThat I shall find Him safe in God's eternity. Jo-night, to-night, this aching in my breast, This wildness in my mind Cries to the farthest cruel star "0 Thou to Whom his soul has gone, spare me his lips love-prest lii this pained night eternity is farCod! give his dear warm body back to mc.

32

REGINALD F. CLEMENTS

2N0 LIEUT., ROYAL SussEx REGIMENT

Immortality

I MAY not wait to hear What says the wind that sweeps across the lea, And yet I know it speaks, and in its voice There is some iord to make my heart rejoice, Some message speeding on eternally

That God has not made clear!

I may not wait to find The secret of the seething sea that flows Nor ever rests; yet must there be some plan Above the most exalted thought of man, Some destiny that none but Heaven knows,

And Heaven keeps me blind!

I may not wait to know The secret of the towering mountain height That makes my little self so small and frail And bids me rest awhile behind the veil, Because so far beyond it shines the light

And God would have it so!

C33
More Songs by the F rvlen

I may not wait; I see The hosts of Righteousness go forth to slay The armies of a people that would turn From all that makes man's nobler soul to burn, And yet I feel as now I take my way My Immortality!

Finis Coronat Opus

THOUGH I have lived as one whose soul is dead Nor ever touched my heart-strings to awake. Some harmony of love that else had fled From where diviner semblance it might take Though I have scorned to hear when there has called The sterner voice within that bade me rise And spurn the sloth that held my will enthralled And veiled my loftier vision to the skies

This of my slumbering spirit I entreat, That when I fall and may not rise again, Or ever this faint heart no more shall beat, And I have lost the stimulant of pain, That I some vestige of renown may leaveSome flower to which posterity may cleave. 34

LEONARD NIELL COOK MC., 2ND LIEUT., ROYAL LANCS RrGT.

(A Rugby and Oxford boy. Killed inaction July 7, 5917)

Plymouth Sound

0BEDIENT to the echoed harbour gun The homing traffic on the water's breast

Fold up their tawny wings and take their rest. The pale-eyed stars already one by one Steal softly forth to look upon the sun,

So proudly parting. While from island-nest,

Deep-shadowed cove, torn slope, or purple crest, All things give praise to God in unison.

Then, brothers-for the time is very near

When I, the youngest floweret of the heath, Will open in the gloomy courts of Fear,

Perchance to crown the pallid brow of DeathOh let me, clinging to the greensward here,

Drink in God's quietness with every breath.

35
GERALD M. COOPER

2ND LIEUT., Scoi GUARDS

Sonnets

I

WEARY of strife and sickening at the thought My soul desires release, and as I gaze Upon the barrenness that war hath wrought, Another vision rises in a haze Of phantasy-I see a place of rest All bathed in sunlight and the scent of flowers, Where Time has fall'n asleep on Nature's breast, And none may mark the tread of passing hours. And in the fairest part of all, that seems The very home of all things pure and good, A woman sits with half-closed eyes, and dreams In ecstasy of perfect motherhood. C) wondrous mystery! Behold, the earth Blossoms again in mystic second birth.

36

Gerald M. Cooper

II

A dark grey sky that merges in the west Into pale primrose, where the fading day Still lingers like an echo half-expressed Of some forgotten glory. By the way, Outlined in black against the sky, there stands A wayside crucifix among the corn; Waiting with tired eyes and outstretched hands In patient expectation of the morn.

The gentle whisper of the poplar trees Is hardly loud enough to break the spell Of mystic silence. From the church tower's height Comes, wafted onward by the dying breeze, The solemn tolling of a single bell; Then silence and the mystery of night.

37
LESLIE COULSON SERC,I., LONDON REGIMENT, Ri. (Died of Wounds in France, October, 1916)

"-But a Short Time to Live"

0UR little hour,-how swift it flies

When poppies flare and lilies smile

I low soon the fleeting minute dies,

Leaving us but a little while

To dream our dream, to sing our song,

To pick the fruit, to pluck the flower,

The Gods-They do not give us long

One little hour.

One little hour,-how short it is

When Love with dew-eyed loveliness

Raises her lips for ours to kiss

And dies within our first caress.

Youth flickers out like wind-blown flame,

Sweets of to-day to-morrow sour,

For Time and Death relentless claim

Our little hour.

Our little hour,-how short a time To wage--our wars, to fan our hates, 38

Leslie Coulson

To take our fill of armoured crime,

To troop our banners, storm the gates.

Blood on the sword, our eyes blood-red,

Blind in our puny reign of power,

Do we forget how soon is sped

Our little hour

Our little hour,-how soon it dies

How short a time to tell our beads,

To chant our feeble Litanies,

To think sweet thoughts, to do good decJs.

The altar lights grow pale and dim,

The bells hang silent in the tower

So passes with the dying hymn

Our little hour.

From the Somme I N other days I sang of simple things, Of summer dawn, and summer noon and night,

The dewy grass, the dew-wet fairy rings, The lark's long golden flight.

Deep in the forest I made melody While squirrels cracked their hazel nuts on high, Or I would cross the wet sand to the sea And sing to sea and sky. 39
More Songs by the Fighting Men

When came the silvered silence of the night

I stole to casements over scented lawns, And softly sang of love and love's delight To mute white marble fauns.

Oft in the tavern parlour I would sing

Of morning sun upon the mountain vine, And, calling for a chorus, sweep the string In praise of good red wine.

I played with all the toys the gods provide,

I sang my songs and made glad holiday. Now I have cast my broken toys aside And flung my lute away.

A singer once, I now am fain to weep.

Within my soul I feel strange music swell, Vast chants of tragedy too deep-too deep For my poor lips to tell.

The Secret

WHAT is the secret-the secret That lies at the heart of it allThe surge of the stars, the cry of the wind, And the beat of the sea,

And the surge, and the cry, and the beat of the soul in me?

40

S. DONALD COX PRIVATE, RULE BRIGADE, B.E.F., FRANCE

The Wind in the Trees

WIND! Wind! what do you bring With the whirling flake and the flying cloud? A victor's bays and a song to sing

-Nay, but a hero's shroud!

Wild wind! what do you bearA song of the men who fought and fell, A tale of the strong to do and dare?

-Aye, and a tolling bell

Wind! wind! what do you seeThe flying flags and the soldiers brave, The marching men, the bold and free?

-Nay, but a new-dug grave!

\ViM wind! what do you moan 'r0 the frosty night and the cloud-wracked sky?

-A soldier's cross, a father's groan, And a mother's hopeless cry

4'
More Songs by the Fighting Men

On a Girl killed by German Shrapnel

fr is not much: one child the less to sing

Her passage through the hours

One girl the less to greet the coming spring, And pluck the summer's flow'rs.

It is not much: one little coffin made And one more little shroud.

One hush the more within the room's dark shade, One less word said aloud.

It is not much : one prayer the less to God, From Whom all prayers have birth,

One scar the more across the fresh green sod, One shovel more of earth.

It is not much: yet could it have been more? God thinks the same of such,

As of the proudest hero killed in war Who says it is not much?

FRANCE, July, 1917.

42

S. Donald Cox

Life

ET of a child's gay laughter, Cry of a soul in pain, Sunshine awhile, and after Rain.

Day and the zest of living,

Dusk and the dark's release After the hour of striving Peace.

After the conflict's flurry,

Silence serene and deep After the stress and hurry Sleep.

43
JOHN hUGENE CROMBIE CAPTAIN, GORDON HICHLANDERS (killed in Action, St. George's Day, 1917)

The Dream-path

WALKING my dream-paved road on the Hill

of Desire

I saw beneath me the City of Quiet Delight;

The warming rays from each home-welcoming fire

Wove a pattern of gold on the velvet curtain of night.

The scent from the hill's rank grass put desire in my soul

To attain to the City below in the Valley of Hope,

But my grey path led beyond the horizon's roll,

Binding my feet in the web of a dream-made rope.

Reluctant, I followed the path, where I knew was Pain,

The distance glared with a furnace glow in the

sky,

And the voice of the sea and the splashing of tropic rain

Were the hiss of the steam from untaught Machinery.

44

John Eugene Crombie

?'Iy dream-path led through the Furnace, and Pain, and Fire

I could not stay nor turn from the road in flight

But I knew it would lead me back past the Hill of Desire

To the warm hearth-stones in the City of Quiet Delight.

The Pedlar

THERE'S a broken, lame old pedlar a-limping down the street,

Cold sorrow at his heart, a hard road beneath his feet,

Lifeless walls around him and a leaden sky above

As he searches through the city for the face of his lost Love.

Red and blue and golden leaps the flame of hi desire;

Red, for glowing embers of a vagabond's night fire, blue, to seek the deep unfathomed glory of the sea,

And gold for Northern sunsets, wealth of beggars such as he.

4.5
More Songs by the Fighting Men

The fire and sea and sunset are the face of his lost Love,

His heart is plucked by stronger chords than ever cities wove,

But, buried 'twixt the pavement grey, grey walls and smoke-hid skies

In a closely leaded coffin the old pedlar's lost love lies.

The Gate

MUSING alone beside my midnight fire On some old tale of bygone chivalry, 1 heard upon the wind's unending sigh The muffled feet of many thousand years. I saw them pass, grey-cloaked and travel-stained, Toward a crystal gate beyond the stars. lie that is called the Builder came to me And took me by the hand, and then he spake: "This is the Gate through which the years must pass To be absolved from the Eternal Curse And lay aside their shabby cloak of sin. Brave men have brought their strength and gentleness, Children have brought their laughter, women teals For stones to build the Crystal Gate-and thou?

46

John Eugene Crombie

Desolation

0VER the bare, blank line of the ridge, Over the stump of Sentinel Tree, The moon slowly crosses the unseen bridge

That is set in the sky from the hills to the sea.

The sun's pale sister, moving yet dead,

The scars show dark on her weary face:

Is it strife of a million years that have bled

Her heart's life, and set Death's frosty sheen in her place?

Is she watching our strife, the tired moon? Can she see

How the earth's face is scarred, her life ebbing fast

And only the shorn stump of Sentinel Tree

Prays in silence," How long will her agony last ?

I RLNCHES, Dcccrnber, 1916.

47
More Songs by the Fighting Men

The Mist

L\\ AYS the rolling mist,

Wrapping the scene in wet and fleecy fold, Moved as a curtain by the sluggish wind, Lifting and swaying, falling damp and cold, It sweeps, yet passes never, soft and blind.

Have sunbeams never kissed These dreary hills and life-forsaken slopesHidden like women's shoulders in a gown That mars their beauty ? Only shattered hopes And ghostly fears people the shadowed down. These sunless wreaths are curling round my heart The deadening fingers of the passing years Are closing, and I cannot thrust apart '['heir tightening grip .... No ray of sun appears,

Only the rolling mist.

HUTS, FRANCE, December, 1916.

48

John Eugene Cronihic

The Shrine

THE first bright spears have pierced the armoured brown,

Broadened and drooped, and snowdrops speck the field

'lie lengthening gaze of daylight looking down

Is shocked to see the hedge-row winter sealed 'lceping in nakedness, and stirs her frame \ ed with the hawthorn bids her hide her shame.

Returning through the fields at evening hour I lay before Thy shrine my offering, \l candleflame a yellow crocus flower, Its life but newly lit to Thee I bring

thanks that I can see Thy guiding hand I every flower that decorates the land.

BI LLLTS, FRANCE, March, 1917.

49
