
<pb n="51"/>
GEOFFREY H. CRUMP 
Major, Essex Regiment

God

I WENT alone into the fields to-night.
And stood upon the hillside, where the oaks 
Have stood and talked of God in the twilight 
For centuries, and cracked their ancient jokes 
Over our heads; those veterans know more 
Of God than we have learned with all our lore.

I pressed my cheek against an oak's rough bark, 
And watched the sun drop down behind the hill; 
Silence fell on the valley; the last lark 
Was hushed; and suddenly the wind was still ...
A breath of air went rustling through the trees, 
And God passed by me in the sunset breeze.

A clock chimed in the valley down below; 
Some children shouted; and the blue smoke curled 
Out of the cottage chimneys -- 'twas as though 
There could be nothing ugly in the world; 
The lights gleamed from the houses in the wood;
And God smiled, for He saw that it was good.

<pb n="52"/>
Then, as I laid my head upon the ground, 
And waited there for dark night's close embrace, 
I heard, far off, a murmuring, rumbling sound, 
As if the earth groaned at her own disgrace;
It trembled on the breeze, swelled, and then died;
Again the branches rustled, and God sighed.


Sunset

LIKE a vast forest on some distant plain, 
Out in the west, dark, rounded clouds lay low 
Upon the sea: o'er them, the sun's broad train --
The glories of the golden afterglow.

Gold, and then crimson: changing, through degrees
Of red and green, to fields of turquoise blue:
Then darker blue, that challenges the seas
To deeper darkness, as the storm-clouds do.

Then, when the stars gleamed faintly, blushing red
At their own eagerness: and as this feast
Of beauty seemed complete, and day was dead,
I turned my face, and looked toward the east.

There I saw that which made me hold my breath;
I'd thought the sunset fair now met my sight, 
<pb n="53"/>
In perfect contrast -- like the peace of death
After life's glare -- the grandeur of the night.

In empty sky, still tinged with wondrous blue,
The full moon hung, displaying royally
Her cold and naked beauty, as she threw
Her path of silver moonbeams on the sea.

God showed me then, that, if we learn to love
The beauties that He sends us in our day, 
More lovely yet will night celestial prove --
The perfect calm of passions passed away.
<hi rend="smallcaps">Indian Ocean</hi>, <hi rend="italic">November</hi>, 1916.


Off St. Helena

WHEN I sit silent on the swaying deck, 
And drink in the soft splendour of the night,
The pale, proud moon; the sky, all cloud a-fleck;
The silver balls of phosphorescent light 
In the white foam; the davits curving black
Against the sky; the tall and stately mast,
Swinging from star to star -- though these all lack
Nothing of beauty, perfect, pure, and vast,
'Tis naught to me: save that I may devise 
That I do look again into your eyes.


<pb n="54"/>
Plymouth Mists

TEAR-DIMMED eyes my loved one lifted,
When she said good-bye to me;
Sweet, grey eyes, where colours shifted
Like the shadows on the sea:
O'er the cliffs of Devon, keeping
Guard, like eyes, o'er Devon's mouth,
Sad, grey mists came stilly creeping,
Sorrow-laden, from the South.

Through the weary weight of sadness, 
And the numbness of despair,
Came a thought that turned to gladness
Even the pain I could not bear:
Those proud cliffs were calling clearly,
As Drake heard them in his day :--
"England knows you love her dearly,
Weeps to send you far away."

'Neath this brazen, blazing heaven, 
In a wilderness of sand,
Daily England's lives are given
For her newest, oldest land;
<pb n="55"/>
Does there come a dream, consoling
Those who die on foreign ground,
Of the sea-mists, slowly rolling
Homewards over Plymouth Sound?

Should I die, I'll see them drifting
Through the mirage, ere I go;
Maybe, if the mists are lifting,
I'll see sunshine on the Hoe!
Should I live, when this is over,
And we've done what is to do,
England, smile to greet your lover,
When he hurries home to you!
<hi rend="smallcaps">Basra</hi>, <hi rend="italic">December</hi>, 1916.


<pb n="56"/>
R. C. G. DARTFORD 
Captain, attached to Portuguese Expeditionary Force, France

A Soldier's Question: Spring, 1917

CURSE I the Spring that God has sent 
Raising such discord in my soul? ...
'Twas fitter when the winter's blast 
Could lash my spirit to the mast 
And send me drugged by brute control 
To battle with a grim content!

Then Death took hold on the neck of Life 
And Earth's rough scalp lay touzled and scarred, 
And the winter-scream swept round me fierce --
The softer visions to disperse --
While stripped by storms I stood on guard 
Cleaving the wind with keener knife.

But now with Spring to dream or grieve 
I am tempted, and the blushful day 
Reveals her old-time beauty, far 
From mating with the ghost of War. 
Am I then laggard if I pray 
From this soul's scaffold quick reprieve?


<pb n="57"/>
War-time Consolation

BUT for the watches dark 
Would you welcome the morrow? 
Can any joy reach your heart 
But mounts upon sorrow? 
Surely pains in which you take part 
Pleasures will borrow?


Welcome Death

WHEN you've been dead beat, and had to go on 
While others died; when your turn to be gone 
Is overdue; when you're pushed ahead 
(Go on till you die" is all they said), 
<hi rend="italic">Then die</hi> -- and you're glad to be dead!


<pb n="58"/>
CLIFFORD J. DRUCE
2nd Lieut., Gloucester Regiment

Forecast

IF I should chance to fall, and find 
A last couch on this soil of France, 
Do not seek out with yearning mind
The place, nor give my grave one glance.

The cross would mark a cenotaph;
And careless of the flesh thus laid
In unfamiliar earth, I'd laugh
To know how quickly it decayed.

My spirit, freed, impatient still
At the irrelevant, blind stroke
That stole the servant of its will
With all half-done, with thews unbroke,

Would swiftly reach the land which knew
The love that time had not yet staled,
And haunt the country whence it drew
The life that has not sped nor failed.

<pb n="59"/>
Perhaps beside some lonely copse
A brook would flow with less of ease,
The brooding wind that sways the tops
Murmur more plaintive in the trees.

And should you, lingering there alone, 
Feel on your face, some evening 
Its touch, that stranger, rarer grown,
Clothes some sweet, straining, half-spoke thing;

Know that the fate self-fixed must yet
Endure, whether I die or live;
And I still strive to ease the debt
Of kisses I was born to give.
<hi rend="smallcaps">France</hi>, <hi rend="italic">May</hi>, 1917.


To a Grave of the Glosters

A WOODEN cross above your head, 
You lie, your course already sped;
And in this alien plain must rest 
The bones and body Cotswold bred.

Not long since, insolent with life 
You made the beech-topped barrow rife 
With your tumultuous vivid youth, 
With other lads, in sport and strife.

<pb n="60"/>
And though you shook the earth o'er those
Old warriors, close couched there in rows,
Your careless clamour had no power 
To trouble their sublime repose:

Who, if they felt at all the tread 
Of such as you pass overhead,
Wise with the wisdom of long years 
Were patient, knowing that their bed

Was spacious, patient too, withal;
That centuries after you were thrall
To undistinguished dust, they still 
Would hold their place, each in his stall.

But now, ere many months are told 
Over <hi rend="italic">your</hi> head, encased in mould,
Children may play, with little care 
Of one beneath them, silent, cold.

Take my salute: ere twenty years 
You knew, you reckon as your peers
The men of axe and spear of stone, 
As far removed as they from fears

And doubts that vex men such as me.
From all demands from henceforth free
On weary limbs and spirit tired,
You hold eternity in fee.


<pb n="61"/>


Spring in Picardy
WHEN earth was bare, and sky a murky pall,
And snow and sleet filled all the miles and days
That held us two asunder, all my gaze Was bounded by an impenetrable wall Of chill, numbed, burdened hours, that rose so tall I only dimly knew that your fair ways Lay far beyond it, where desire could raise
To bring you nearer, no sufficient call.
h God that blank was better borne than this Flushed wantonness of May, these maiden leaves
That bare themselves to bathe in the ardent moon.
There is a false note in the wood-dove's croon And all is meaningless, show that deceives,
I lollow, lacking its core and clue-your kiss.
6i
H. S. GRAHAM CAPT., R.E.T.
The Seers
THL Poets who have sung ha\e 3O5 rceaicd
The great abiding purpose for which G(-,(I I las led again the Nations to the Field Of Blood, through which our fathers ofttimes trod.
And we must wait ; for unto them alone rrhe Truth is naked who themselves, ahead Of all their fellow-men, away have thrown Their Life, and on the battlefield lie dead.
To them who thus to God have bared the Soul U shown the Truth, the Victory of Loss, Of Sacrifice of all for God, the bowl Which Jesus drained for man upon the Cross I
To them we turn, our lost, our best, our brave Vet should we hear though one rose from the gsa
FRANCE, 1916.
62
H. S. Graham
The Field of Blood
STRANGER, this foreign field wherein you lie Has many human vessels fashioned true Under the Potter's Thumb. The Priests did buy it with the silver Traitor Judas threw Into the Treasury, as he confessed lie had betrayed the Blood of Innocence. They bought the field for weary Strangers' rest And you are Stranger thrice,-to War's offence, To death and to this land. The World allied To other Traitors long have seized Our Lord And by this War have Him recrucified; And soldiers guard His Tomb with naked swords. But for all this the stone shall roll away, And you shall rise with Him on Easter Day
Oil. December, 1916.
63
WILFRID J. HALLIDAY ZND Lriur., WEST YORKS
"An Unknown British Soldier'
'T's In a little wooden cross In lonely grandeur there
That smiles upon a rugged mound Of weedy, unattended ground, For he was no man's care.
A broken bayonet marked the spot And troops would turn aside, '['ill loving hands rough cast the wood
And shaped a cross, emblem of blood, To tell where he had died.
He died unowned, for none could tell The silent hero's name
They saw the bloody wounds he bore,
The shattered limbs, but nothing more, And knew not whence he came.
64
Wilfrid J. Halliday
An unknown British soldier "-that Was all that they could say.
'Twas not for them to wet the eye,
Why lives a soldier but to die? And so they went their way.
But I may pause and probe his heart Before the shadow fell,
And think that he had still a prayer
For those frail souls who soon would share The moment black as Hell.
The flowers had bloomed when last I looked, The grass was freshly mown:
A shapely cross so chastely white Shone in the dazzling noonday light, Yet still the same "Unknown."
Unknown! Ah, no! thy name still lives, For One had seen thee fall
,And marked the sacrifice thus made, The debt of love so nobly paid, Faithful to Freedom's call.
PA',CE, Ylugust, 1917.
65
MALCOLM HEMPHREY. CORPORAL, ARMY ORDNANCE CORP:
The New Year*
THE white moon like a queenly ship
Sails down the blue and tropic night, And all the clouds in homage slip
Into her light.
A quiet veil lies on the earth,
Whose silver glory makes me sadBeyond, ah me War's crashing mirth
Rings wild and mad.
Bcgone, old year, pass from thy own,
And make thou way for newer life Nor grace nor pity will atone
For all thy strife.
I watch thy last few embers die,
And thy bleak ashes-blown around By strong winds that go whirling by
Sink to the ground.
Fe idea of this poem came t nsa on the last night of the lying awake long after " lights out," I gaze,' out at the ugh my teat lattice-window.
66
Malcolm Hemphrcy
But rise to sink, and each black flake
Clings as a lambent stain upon
The young year's blossoms as they wake
And then is gone.
Yet wait ! some day a greater gale
Of Hope and Faith shall drive all doubt
And sharp despair beyond the pale
Shall drive without
'lie soul's infinite sorrow and
Vast shadows of a red, red year,
And undefiled, superbly grand,
Holy and dear
Again the asphodel shall grace
The world's lone, ravaged wilderness
And Youth, in roaming through that place
Of quietness,
Shall rest beside the peaceful graves
Where wild bees hover in the grass,
Which every warm and soft breeze waves
And ere lie pass
Shall kneel and lift a hymn of praise
For those who fought, without a fear
Or doubting heart to tear, to raise
God's good New Year!
-1-RICA, January, 1917
67
BRIAN HILL 2ND Liaur., DURHAM LIGHT INFANTRY
Salonika in November
UP above the grey hills the wheeling birds are
calling,
Round about the cold grey hills in never-resting flight;
Far along the marshes a drifting mist is falling,
Scattered tents and sandy plain melt into the night.
Round about the grey hills rumbles distant thunder,
Echoes of the mighty guns firing night and day,
Grey guns, long guns, that smite the hills asunder,
Grumbling and rumbling, and telling of the fray.
Out among the islands twinkling lights are glowing,
Distant little fairy lights, that gleam upon the bay;
All along the broken road grey transport waggons going
Up to where the long grey guns roar and crash alway.
68
Brian Hill
Up above the cold grey hills the wheeling birds are crying,
Brother calls to brother, as they pass in restless flight.
Lost souls, dead souls, voices of the dying,
Circle o'er the hills of Greece and wail into the night.
69
