Forward - march! - into the tray! No bugles blow to-day, No captains lead the way; But mothers and wives, Fathers, sisters, little sons, Count the cost Of the lost; And we count the unlived lives, The forever unborn ones Who might have been your sons. THE BEARER Could not the hands of these rebuild That which has been destroyed? Oh, the poor hands! that once were strong and filled With implements of labor whereby they Served home and country through the peaceful day. When those who made the war stand face to face With these slain soldiers in that unknown place Whither the dead go, what will be the word By dead lips spoken and by dead ears heard? Will souls say King or Kaiser? Will souls prate Of earthly glory in that new estate? THE COUNTER One hundred thousand One hundred and fifty thousand Two hundred -

THE BEARER

Can this check plough?

Can it sow? can it reap?

Can we arouse it?

Is it asleep?

Can it hear when a child cries? -

Comfort a wife?

This little metal disk

Stands for a life.

Can this check build,

Laying stone upon stone?

Once it was warm flesh

Folded on bone.

Sinew and muscle firm,

Look at it - can

This little metal check

Stand for a man?

THE COUNTER

One - two - three - four -

- Loaise Driseoll.
"FOR THOSE AT SEA"

(H.M.S. "Aboukir," "Cressy," "Hogue," September 22,

1914.)

Now all our English woodland sighs "October."

The mild sun going down behind the trees

Doth bless a countryside as sweet and sober

As ever put on brown and red to please;

The brooks run blood, but 'tis such blood as Heav'n,

Pierced with light, lets fall on field and village;

England's dear breasts are still unbruised, unriv'n

The autumn peace on pastureland and tillage.

Dear mother of us all, hast thou not heard?

Thou knowest how thy sons, our brothers, died

Of late, and hast thou not a sorrowful word?

0 no I Thou dost contain thyself in pride.

Pity suits not for those, who guarding thee

Guard more than their own lives, for those at sea.

- Geoffrey Faber.

THE MAY IN THE TRENCH

CAN you not hear me, young man in the street? Is it nothing to you who pass by, Who down the dim-lit ways in thousands roam? From here'I watch you, through the driving sleet, Under the evening sky, Hurrying home. Home! - how the word sounds like a bell I wonder can you know, as I know well, That in this trench Of death and stench I stand between your home and hell.

I am the roof that shields you from the weather, I am the gate that keeps the brigand back, When pillage, fire, and murder come together, I am the wall that saves your home from sack. Man! when you look upon the girl you prize, Can you imagine horror in those eyes? You have not seen, you cannot understand, This trench is England, all this ruined land Is where you wander, street, or field, or strand, Save for God's grace, and for the guns that ivst Upon this dripping mudbank of the west.
Our blood has stained your threshold -will you stain

Your soul, give nothing and take all our gain?

Why did I come? I ask not, nor repent;

Something blazed up inside me, and I went.

The khaki fringe is frayed, and now a rent

Needs men - needs men, and I am almost spent.

Night, and the "ready" . . so sleep well, my friend

The guns again are going . . . I must stick it to the end.

James Bernard Fagan.

TERRITORIALS

WHERE are the lads who went out to the war?

This year, and last year and long, long ago -

With eyes full of laughter and song on their lips (Our sad hearts flew after as birds follow ships!)

Where are they now, do you know

Some sleep in Flanders and some sleep in France,

This year, and last year, and long years to come -

And under the rampart that guards far Stamboul Some are camped in a rest deep and cool,

And they heed iwi the bitglc and drum !

They'll come, though not all! They will come from the war! This year or next year, or early or late And come well or wounded, come many or few, They will bring back their honor, their faith high and true

Or will bear it to Paradise Gate.

- Agnes S. Falconer.
HONOR TO FRANCE!

IN peace we held thy worth in scant esteem;

Thy sons were dissolute, thy daughters frail;

How light and fair and fickle didst thou seem

In time of need, alas, how sure to fail!

But when war came, a war that was not thine -

And the flame seared thee, then thy heart we knew.

In that dark tumult how thy soul did shine

Loyal and steadfast, pure and brave and true.

Nay, thou art honored even by the foe,

In martyrdom transformed and glorified!

And we who scorned (how little did we know!)

Stripped of the tattered mantle of our pride,

Let us in self-abasement bend the knee

And pray for God's grace to become like thee.

- William Dudley Foulke.

THE JEWISH CONSCRIPT

(There are nearly a quarter of a million Jews in the

Czar's army alone. - Newspaper clipping.)

THEY have dressed me up in a soldier's dress, With a rifle in my hand,

And have sent me bravely forth to shoot My own in a foreign land.

Oh, many shall die for the fields of their homes, And many in conquest wild,

But I shall die for the fatherland That murdered my little child.

How many hundreds of years ago The nations wax and cease! -

Did the God of our fathers doom us to bear The flaming message of peace!

We are the mock and the sport of time! Yet why should I complain! -

For a Jew that they hung on the bloody cross, lie also died in vain.

- Florence Kiper Frank.
HEADQUARTERS

A LEAGUE and a league from the trenches - from the traversed maze of the lines,

Where daylong the sniper watches and daylong the bullet whines,

And the cratered earth is in travail with mines and with countermines

Here, where haply some woman dreamed (are those her roses that bloom

In the garden beyond the windows of my littered working room?)

We have decked the map for our masters as a bride is decked for the groom.

Fair, on each lettered numbered square - crossroad and mound and wire,

Loophole, redoubt and emplacement - lie the targets their mouths desire;

Gay with purples and browns and blues, have we traced them their arcs of fire.

And ever the type-keys chatter; and ever our keen wires bring

Word from the watchers a-crouch below, word from the watchers a-wing:

And ever we hear the distant growl of our hid guns thundering.

Hear it hardly, and turn again to our maps, where the trench-lines crawl,

Red on the gray and each with a sign for the rang

ing shrapnel's fall -

Snakes that our masters shall scotch at dawn, as is written here on the wall.

For the weeks of our waiting draw to a close. . .

There is scarcely a leaf astir

hi the garden beyond my windows, where the twilight shadows blurr

The blaze of some woman's roses . . . . "Bombardment orders, sir."

- Gilbert Frartkau.
