THE WAYSIDE CALVARY

(Lines written on the anniversary of the outbreak of the war.)

Now with the full year Memory holds her tryst Heavy with such a tale of bitter loss As never Earth has suffered since the Christ Hung for us on the Cross.

If God, 0 Kaiser, makes the vision plain: Gives you on some lone Calvary to see The Man of Sorrows Who endured the pain And died to set us free -

How will you face beneath its Crown of thorn That Figure stark against the smoking skies, The Arms outstretched, the Sacred Head forlorn And those reproachful Eyes?

How dare confront the false quest with the true Or think what gulfs between the ideals lie Of Him Who died that men might live - and you Who live that men may die.

Ah, turn your eyes away: He reads your heart; Pass on and, having done your work abhorred, Join hands with Judas in his place apart, You who betrayed your Lord.

- Owen Seaman.
THE MOTHER

OUT of the bitter, the sweet;

Out of the pain, the joy;

Out of the mists, the morning star;

Out of my travail, my boy.

Out of old flesh, new flesh;

Out of old bone, new bone;

Out of my side, my treasure and pride;

My breast his earliest throne.

Stiff in the trenches, and stark;

Dead 'ere the battle was won;

For that which is Right, for Love and Light,

Freely I gave my son.

After the bitter, the sweet;

After the pain, the joy -

I will not falter, nor flinch, nor faint;

Proudly I give my boy.

- "Seranus."

A THANKSGIVING

BEFORE the winter's haunted nights are o'er, I thankfully rejoice, that stars look down

Above the darkened streets, and I adore The Heavens in London Town.

The Heavens, beneath which Alfred stood, when he Built ramparts by the tide against his foes,

The skies men loved, when in eternity The dreamlike Abbey rose;

The Heavens, whose glory has not known increase Since Raleigh swaggered home by lanternlight,

And Shakespeare looking upwards knew the peace, The cool deep peace of night.

Under those Heavens brave Wesley rose betimes To preach ere daybreak to the tender soul;

And in the heart of Keats the starry rhymes Rolled, and for ever roll.

I too have walked with them the heavenly ways, Tracing the sweet embroideries of the sky,

And I shall not forget, when arcs shall blaze, And all the lights are high.

- Eduarci Shillito.
"FORM FOURS"

A VOLUNTEER'S NIGHTMARE

IF you're Volunteer Artist or Athlete, or if you defend the Home,

You sacrifice "Ease" for "Attention," and march like a metronome;

But of all elementary movements you learn in your Volunteer Corps

The one that is really perplexing is known as the Forming of Fours.

Imagine us numbered off from the right: the Sergeant faces the squad,

And says that the odd files do not move - I never seem to be odd!

And then his instructions run like this (very simple in black and white) -

"A pace to the rear with the left foot, and one to the right with the right."

Of course if you don't think deeply, you do it without a hitch;

You have only to know your right and left, and remember which is which

But as soon as you try to be careful, you get in the deuce of a plight,

With "a pace to the right with the left foot, and one to the rear with the right!"

Besides, when you're thoroughly muddled the Sergeant doubles your doubt

By saying that rules reverse themselves, as soon as you're "turned about";

So round you go on your right heel, and practice until you are deft

At "a pace to the front with the right foot, and one to the left with the left."

In my dreams the Sergeant, the Kaiser, and Kipling mix my feet,

Saying "East is left, and Right is Might, and never the twain shall meet!"

In my nightmare squad all files are odd, and their Fours are horribly queer,

With "a pace to the left with the front foot, and one to the right with the rear!"

- F. S.
FIELD AMBULANCE IN RETREAT

Via Dolorosa, Via Sacra

I

A STRAIGHT flagged road, laid on the rough earth,

A causeway of stone from beautiful city to city,

Between the tall trees, the slender, delicate trees,

Through the flat green land, by plots of flowers, by black canals thick with heat.

II

The road-makers made it well

Of fine stone, strong for the feet of the oxen and of the great Flemish horses,

And for the high wagons piled with corn from the harvest.

And the laborers are few;

They and their quiet oxen stand aside and wait

By the long road loud with the passing of the guns, the rush of armored cars and the tramp of an army on the march forward to battle;

And, where the piled corn-wagons went, our dripping Ambulance carries home

Its red and white harvest froni the fields.

III

The straight flagged road breaks into dust, into a thin white cloud,

About the feet of a regiment driven back league by league,

Rifles at trail, and standards wrapped in black funeral cloths. TJnhasting, proud in retreat,

They smile as the Red Cross Ambulance rushes by.

(You know nothing of beauty and of desolation who have not seen

That smile of an army in retreat.)

They go: and our shining, beckoning danger goes with them,

And our joy in the harvests that we gathered in at nightfall in the fields;

And like an unloved hand laid on a beating heart

Our safety weighs us down.

Safety hard and strange; stranger and yet more hard

As, league after dying league, the beautiful, desolate Land

Falls back from the intolerable speed of an Ambulance in retreat

On the sacred, dolorous Way.

- May Sinclair.
CLOSE YOUR RANKS

YES! Draw them close and closer still,

The silken threads, that bind in one The prince, the peasant, rich and poor,

Hark! Hark! The Armageddon is begun. 0 Britons all, let Duty be The watchword and the panoply.

The last to draw the sword, but not

The first to sheathe it; slow we rise To arms. 'Tis Duty's stern behest,

A peal of thunder from the skies, Which bids us to defend the Right Against the tyranny of Might.

Did we forget in the days gone by,

"Not each for each but all for all," The sacred bond of Brotherhood,

By which great empires rise or fall? Nay! But that evil dream is past, That strange aloofness healed at last.

Dear Isle, dear tiny speck in space,

Responsive to thy drums of war,

And thrilled by loyalty of love,

They come, thy sons from shores afar; Thy Flag, fair floating on the breeze Beckons them o'er the trackless seas.

So far and near, so one and all,

Though each one differs from the others, We stand together as of old,

For round the Flag we all are brothers. And so we close our ranks to be The phalanx, which is victory.

- Isaac Gregory Smith.
HEART OF ALL THE WORLD

(Belgium)

HEARTSTRTJCK she stands - Our Lady of all Sorrows-

Circled with ruin, sunk in deep amaze;

Facing the shadow of her dark to-morrows,

Mourning the glory of her yesterdays.

Yet is she queen by every royal token,

There, where the storm of desolation swirled:

Crowned only with the thorn - despoiled and broken -

Her kingdom is the heart of all the world.

She made her breast a shield, her sword a splendor,

She rose like flame upon the darkened ways;

So, through the anguish of her proud surrender

Breaks the clear vision of undying praise.

- Marion C. Smith.
Earth that bore with joyful ease Hemlock for Socrates, Earth that blossomed and was glad 'Neath the cross that Christ had, Shall rejoice and blossom too When the bullet reaches you. Wherefore, men marching On the road to death, sing! Pour your gladness on earth's head, So be merry, so be dead.

From the hills and valleys earth Shouts back the sound of mirth, Tramp of feet and lilt of song Ringing all the road along. All the music of their going, Ringing, swinging, glad song-throwing, Earth will echo still, when foot Lies numb and voice mute. On, marching men, on To the gates of death with song. Sow your gladness for earth's reaping, So you may be glad, though sleeping. Strew your gladness on earth's bed, So be merry, so be dead.

- Charles Hamilton Sorley.

(Captain, Seventh (Service) Battalion of the Suffolk

Regiment, killed in action in France on Oct. 13, 1915.)

KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM

WEEP, waves of England! Nobler clay

Was ne'er to nobler grave consigned;

The wild waves weep with us to-day

Who mourn a nation's master mind.

We hoped an honored age for him,

And ashes laid with England's great;

And rapturous music, and the dim

Deep hush that veils our Tomb of State.

But this is better. Let him sleep

Where sleep the men who made us free,

For England's heart is in the deep,

And England's glory is the sea.

One only vow above his bier,

One only oath beside his bed:

We swear our flag shall shield him here

Until the sea gives up its dead

Leap, waves of England! Boastful be,

And fling defiance in the blast,

For Earth is envious of the Sea

Which shelters England's dead at last.

- Robert J. C. Stead.
THE SPRING IN IRELAND: 1916

I

Do not forget my charge I beg of you; That 0f what flow'rs you find of fairest hue And sweetest odor you do gather those Are best of all the best - a fragrant rose, A tall calm lily from the waterside, A half-blown poppy leaning at the side Its graceful head to dream among the corn, Forget-me-nots that seem as though the morn Had tumbled down and grew into the clay, And hawthorn buds that swing along the way Easing the hearts of those who pass them by Until they find contentment. - Do not cry, But gather buds, and with them greenery Of slender branches taken from a tree Well bannered by the spring that saw them fall: Then you, for you are cleverest of all Who have slim fingers and are pitiful, Brimming your lap with bloom that you may cull, Will sit apart, and weave for every head A garland of the fiow'rs you gathered.

II

Be green upon their graves, 0 happy Spring, For they were young and eager who are dead; Of all things that are young and quivering With eager life be they remembered: They move not here, they have gone to the clay, They cannot die again for liberty; Be they remembered of their land for aye; Green be their graves and green their memory.

Fragrance and beauty come in with the green, The ragged bushes put on sweet attire, The birds forget how chill these airs have been, The clouds bloom out again and move in fire; Blue is the dawn of day, calm is the lake, And merry sounds are fitful in the morn; In covert deep the young blackbirds awake, They shake their wings and sing upon the morn.

At springtime of the year you came and swung Green flags above the newly-greening earth; Scarce were the leaves unfolded, they were young, Nor had outgrown the wrinkles of their birth: Comrades they thought you of their pleasant hour, They had but glimpsed the sun when they saw you; They heard your songs e'er birds had singing power, And drank your blood e'er that they drank the dew.
Then you went down, and then, and as in pain, The Spring affrighted fled her leafy ways, The clouds came to the earth in gusty rain, And no sun shone again for many days: And day by day they told that one was dead, And day by day the season mourned for you, Until that count of woe was finished, And Spring remembered all was yet to do.

She came with mirth of wind and eager leaf, With scampering feet and reaching out of wings, She laughed among the boughs and banished grief, And cared again for all her baby things; Leading along the joy that has to be, Bidding her timid buds think on the May, And told that Summer comes with victory, And told the hope that is all creatures' stay.

Go, Winter, now unto your own abode, Your time is done, and Spring is conqueror Lift up with all your gear and take your road, For she is here and brings the sun with her: Now are we resurrected, now are we, Who lay so long beneath an icy hand, New-risen into life and liberty, Because the Spring is come into our land.

HI In other lands they may, With public joy or dole along the way, With pomp and pageantry and loud lament Of drums and trumpets, and with merriment Of grateful hearts, lead into rest and sted The nation's dead.

If we had drums and trumpets, if we had Aught of heroic pitch or accent glad To honor you as bids tradition old, With banners flung or draped in mournful fold, And pacing cortege; these would we not bring For your last journeying.

We have no drums or trumpets ; naught have we But some green branches taken from a tree, And flowers that grow at large in mead and vale; Nothing of choice have we, or of avail To do you honor as our honor deems, And as your worth beseems.

Sleep, drums and trumpets, yet a little time; All ends and all begins, and there is chime At last where discord was, and joy at last Where woe wept out her eyes: be not downcast, Here is prosperity and goodly cheer, For life does follow death, and death is here.

- James Slephen$.
SAILOR, WHAT OF TIlE DEBT WE OWE YOU?

SAILOR, what of the debt we owe you?

Day or night is the peril more?

Who so dull that he fails to know you,

Sleepless guard of our island shore?

Safe the corn to the farmyard taken;

Grain ships safe upon all the seas;

Homes in peace and a faith unshaken

Sailor, what do we owe for these?

Safe the clerk at his desk; the trader

Counts unruined his honest gain;

Safe though yonder the curs't invader

Pours red death over hill and plain.

Sailor, what of the debt we owe you?

Now is the hour at last to pay,

Now in the stricken field to show you

What is the spirit you guard to-day.

- Andrew John Stuart.

(Eldest son of the Earl of Castlestewart, Lieut. 6th Royal Scots Fusiliers, killed in action in France between Sept. 25 and 27, 1915.)
