REVENGE FOR RHEIMS

THOU Permanence amid all things that pass! Unchanging Thought amid the drift of change; Thou Rally of the Soul in days of dross; How art Thou fallen!

Thou Prayer, that ever-rising, yet remained, That for seven hundred years didst sing and soar, Spirit with wings outspread tip-toe on Earth, How art Thou fallen!

Thou Vision frozen, and Thou Sigh transfixed; Thou Camp of dreams, Thou Fort of faith unstormed, Time-worn, yet wearying t'ward Eternity, How art Thou fallen!

Thou wast to France her Inspiration old, Thou hadst for ivy earliest memories; From Thee her Knights, her Angels long looked down; How art Thou fallen!

What vengeance for Thy ruin shall She hurl? 0, be that vengeance, that the ruin stand, Only those Choirs for ever unrestored! Ever unfallen!

- Stephen Phillips.

CANADA TO ENGLAND

GREAT names of thy great captains gone before Beat with our blood, who have that blood of thee: Raleigh and Grenville, Wolfe, and all the free Fine souls who dared to front a world in war. Such only may outreach the envious years Where feebler crowns and fainter stars remove, Nurtured in one remembrance and one love Too high for passion and too stern for tears.

O little isle our fathers held for home, Not, not alone thy standards and thy hosts Lead where thy sons shall follow, Mother Land: Quick as the north wind, ardent as the foam, Behold, behold the invulnerable ghosts Of all past greatnesses about thee stand.

- Marjorie L. C. Pickt hail.
SOCKS

SHINING pins that dart and click

In the fireside's sheltered peace

Check the thoughts that cluster thick -

20 plain and then decrease.

He was brave - well, so was I -

Keen and merry, but his lip

Quivered when he said good-bye -

Purl the seam-stitch, purl and slip.

Never used to living rough,

Lots of things he'd got to learn;

Wonder if he's warm enough -

Knit 2, catch 2, knit 1, turn.

Hark! The paper-boys again!

Wish that shout could be suppressed;

Keeps one always on the strain -

Knit off 9, and slip the rest.

Wonder if he's fighting now,

What he's done an' where he's been;

He'll come out on top, somehow -

Slip 1, knit 2, purl 14.

- Jessie Pope.

TO SHAKESPEARE, 1916

WITH what white wrath must turn thy bones,

What stern amazement flame thy dust, To feel so near this England's heart

The outrage of the assassin's thrust.

But surely, too, thou art consoled, -

Who knewest thy stalwart breed so well, To see us rise from sloth and go,

Plain and unbragging, through this hell.

And surely, too, thou art assured!

Hark how that grim and gathering beat Draws upwards from the ends of earth -

The tramp, tramp of thy kindred's feet!

-Charles G. D. Roberts.
BELGIUM THE BAR-LASS

THE night was still. The King sat with the Queen. She sang. Her maidens spun. A peaceful scene.

Sudden, wild echoes shake the castle wall. Their foes come crashing through the outer hall.

They rush like thunder down the gallery floor Someone has stolen the bolt that bars the door!

No pin to hold the loops, no stick, no stave, Nothing! An open door, an open grave!

Then Catherine Bar-lass thrust her naked arm (A girl's arm, white as milk, alive and warm)

Right through the loops from which the bolt was gone: "Twill hold (she said) until they break the bone -

My King, you have one instant to prepare!" She said no more, because the thrust was there.

Oft have I heard that tale of Scotland's King The Poet, and Kate the Bar-lass. (Men will sing

For aye the deed one moment brings to birth Such moments are the ransom of our Earth.)

Brave Belgium, Bar-lass of our western world, Who, when the treacherous Prussian tyrant hurled

His hordes against our peace, thrust a slight hand, So firm, to bolt our portals and withstand,

Whatever prove the glory of our affray, Thine arm, thy heart, thine act have won the day! -A. Mary F. Robin8on. (Madame Duclaux.)
CASSANDRA

I HEARD one who said: "Verily,

What word have I for children here? Your Dollar is your only Word,

The wrath of It your only fear.

"You build it altars tall enough

To make you see, but you are blind; You cannot leave it long enough

To look before you or behind.

"When Reason beckons you to pause,

You laugh and say that you know best; But what it is you know, you keep

As dark as ingots in a chest.

"You laugh and answer, 'We are young;

O leave us now, and let us grow.' Not asking how much more of this

Will Time endure or Fate bestow.

"Because a few complacent years

Have made your peril of your pride, Think you that you are to go on

Forever pampered and untried?

"What lost eclipse of history,

What bivouac of the marching stars,

Has given the sign for you to see

Millenniums and last great wars?

"What unrecorded overthrow

Of all the world has ever known,

Or even been, has made itself

So plain to you, and you alone?

"Your Dollar, Dove and Eagle make

A Trinity that even you

Rate higher than you rate yourselves;

It pays, it flatters, and it's new.

"And though your very flesh and blood

Be what your Eagle eats and drinks,

You'll praise him for the best of birds,

Not knowing what the Eagle thinks.

"The power is yours, but not the sight;

You see not upon what you tread;

You have the ages for your guide,

But not the wisdom to be led.

"Think you to tread forever down

The merciless old verities?

And are you never to have eyes

To see the world for what it is?
"Are you to pay for what you have With all you are?" - No other word We caught, but with a laughing crowd

Moved on. None heeded, and few heard.

- Edwin Arlington Robinson.

SHAKESPEARE, 1916

Now when the sinking Sun reeketh with blood, And the gore-gushing vapors rent by him Rend him and bury him: now the World is dim As when great thunders gather for the flood, And in the darkness men die where they stood, And dying slay, or scatter'd limb from limb Cease in a flash where mad-eyed cherubim Of Death destroy them in the night and mud: When landmarks vanish murder is become A glory - cowardice, conscience - and to lie, A law - to govern, but to serve a time: We dying, lifting bloodied eyes and dumb, Behold the silver star serene on high, That is thy spirit there, 0 Master Mind sublime. -Ronald Ross.
