TO ENGLAND, OUR MOTHER

A HYMN OF LOYALTY

WE are your children, 0 Mother,

And tried by your testing, but true;

Sealed of your sign and none other;

Soul of the soul that is you;

Yours from the past, for the morrow;

Leal at your travail we bow,

Mother made perfect by sorrow,

With the pain-splendid brow.

Yours was our freedom that blamed you,

Our right that was wind to our hate

Yours, and the swift wrath that named you.

Mother, we love, - and we wait.

We that you favored or slighted,

Mother, are all of us peers

In our will that your wrong shall be righted,

In our love at the sight of your tears.

Ah, deep in our hearts is the sweetness

Of your fields where as infants we trod,

When our ills were as swallows for fleetness,

In the green-curtained play-grounds of God.

Fond days that are joys mid our weeping

Are set mid your meadows and bowers;

Our loves that lie dead in your keeping

You fondle with grass and with flowers.

Ah, yours was the beauty that blessed us;

The kiss when our troubles were dumb;

The hand that in childhood caressed us -

Oh, Mother! you need us. We come!

Love-gifts from our hell or our heaven

Take, take them and purge with your pain;

All, all our love's best take, and leaven

Our life till 'tis lovely again, -

And true to your height, Mother, tender

And true to the best in us all!

We have pined here alone in your splendor;

But we speed to your pain lest you fall.

Ask: we give! Is it life or the other?

Is it death? Take us whole. We are come

For the sake of our dream of you, Mother,

Whose love we have longed for at home!

* * * * * *  *

Oh, Lord of our fathers before us,

We have turned from the light of Thy word, We and this Mother who bore us:

Dread God, we were proud: we have erred.
We plead: on ourselves, not our brother, Lay now the stern weight of Thy rod;

Grind us small with Thy grief; - but our Mother Spare, spare her, 0 God!

- James A. Mackeretji.

THE ISLAND OF SKYROS

HERE, where we stood together, we three men, Before the war had swept us to the East Three thousand miles away, I stand again And hear the bells, and breathe, and go to feast. We trod the same path, to the self-same place, Yet here I stand, having beheld their graves, Skyros whose shadows the great seas erase, And Seddul Bahr that ever more blood craves. So, since we communed here, our bones have been Nearer, perhaps, than they again will be, Earth and the world-wide battle lie between, Death lies between, and friend-destroying sea. Yet here, a year ago, we talked and stood As I stand now, with pulses beating blood.

I saw her like a shadow on the sky In the last light, a blur upon the sea, Then the gale's darkness put the shadow by, But from one grave that island talked to me; And, in the midnight, in the breaking storm, I saw its blackness and a blinking light, And thought, "So death obscures your gentle form, So memory strives to make the darkness bright;
And, in that heap of rocks, your body lies, Part of the island till the planet ends, My gentle comrade, beautiful and wise, Part of this crag this bitter surge offends, While I, who pass, a little obscure thing, War with this force, and breathe, and am its king."

- John Masefield.

(See note on Rupert Brooke, p. 38.)

O GLORIOUS FRANCE

You have become a forge of snow white fire, A crucible of molten steel, 0 France! Your sons are stars who cluster to a dawn And fade in light for you, 0 glorious France! They pass through meteor changes with a song Which to all islands and all continents Says life is neither comfort, wealth, nor fame, Nor quiet hearthstones, friendship, wife nor child, Nor love, nor youth's delight, nor manhood's power, Nor many days spent in a chosen work, Nor honored merit, nor the patterned theme Of daily labor, nor the crowns nor wreaths Of seventy years.

These are not all of life, O France, whose sons amid the rolling thunder Of cannon stand in trenches where the dead Clog the ensanguined ice. But life to these Prophetic and enraptured souls is vision, And the keen ecstasy of fated strife, And divination of the loss as gain, And reading mysteries with brightened eyes

N
In fiery shock and dazzling pain before The orient splendor of the face of Death,

As a great light beside a shadowy sea; : And in a high will's strenuous exercise, 1 Where the warmed spirit finds its fullest strength And is no more afraid. And in the stroke Of azure lightning when the hidden essence And shifting meaning of man's spiritual worth And mystical significance in time Are instantly distilled to one clear drop Which mirrors earth and heaven. This is life Flaming to heaven in a minute's span When the breath of battle blows the smoldering spark. And across these seas We who cry Peace and treasure life and cling To cities, happiness, or daily toil For daily bread, or trail the long routine Of seventy years, taste not the terrible wine Whereof you drink, who drain and toss the cup Empty and ringing by the finished feast; Or have it shaken from your hand by sight 00 Of God against the olive woods. As Joan of Arc amid the apple trees With sacred joy first heard the voices, then

Obeying plunged at Orleans in a field Of spears and lived her dream and died in fire, Thou, France, hast heard the voices and hast lived The dream and known the meaning of the dream, And read its riddle: How the soul of man May to one greatest purpose make itself A lens of clearness, how it loves the cup Of deepest truth, and how its bitterest gall Turns sweet to soul's surrender.

And you say: Take days for repetition, stretch your hands For mocked renewal of familiar things: The beaten path, the chair beside the window, The crowded street, the task, the accustomed sleep, And waking to the task, or many springs Of lifted cloud, blue water, flowering fields The prison house grows close no less, the feast A place of memory sick for senses dulled Down to the dusty end where pitiful Time Grown weary cries Enough!

- Edgar Lee Masters.
IN FLANDERS FIELDS

(Reprinted by the special permission of the proprietors of Punch.)

IN Flanders fields the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row, That mark our place, and in the sky,

The larks, still bravely singing, fly, Scarce heard amid the guns below.

We are the dead; short days ago

We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved, and now we lie In Flanders fields.

Take up our quarrel with the foe! To you from failing hands we throw

The torch; be yours to hold it high!

If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies grow In Flanders fields.

- John McRae.

THE FLEETS

ARE YOU out with the fleets through the long, dark night,

Admiral Drake?

Are you keeping watch, when with never a light

They patrol the seas and wait for a fight?

In that far South Sea were you standing by,

Admiral Drake?

Did your masthead catch that wireless cry?

Did you in sorrow watch them die?

Once more at the guns do your gunners strain,

Admiral Drake?

Do their voices ring o'er the decks again,

"Have at them, boys I" in the old refrain?

When the shining death leaps through the wave, Admiral Drake,

Are your boats all out in a rush to save?

Do you stand to salute the death of the brave?

Are there others out on the heaving blue,

Admiral Drake?
