Scream of the bullets' rattling mirth, Sweeping the earth. Laugh of the cannon's poisonous breath. And over the shouts and the wreckage and crumbling The raucous and rumbling Laughter of death. Death that arises to sing, Hailing the Spring!

- LoUi8 Untermeyer.

THE AMERICAN VOLUNTEERS

NEUTRAL! America, you cannot give

To your sons' souls neutrality. Your powers Are sovereign, Mother, but past histories live

In hearts as young as ours.

We who are free disdain oppression, lust

And infamous raid. We have been pioneers For freedom and our code of honor must

Dry and not startle tears.

We've read of Lafayette, who came to give

His youth, with his companions and their powers, To help the Colonies - and heroes live

In hearts as young as ours!

Neutral! We who go forth with sword and lance,

A little band to swell the battle's flow, Go willingly, to pay again to France

Some of the debt we owe.

- Marie Van Vorsi.
THE CONSCRIPT

THEN former stars were faint and signs were fled.

Dawn flamed and sleepers roused: you saw men's souls

Crowned of that fire with terrible aureoles. You saw - and hid your head, and hid your head. What of you, 0 Unwilling, shall be said? England, Beloved,

Say that Pain crowned even mine with all men's souls.

Joyous as guest unto the rose-heaped board,

Dreamful as lover to his dreams' desire,

Steadfast as martyr to the pitiless fire, My sons, yet not to any task abhorred, But to love's service, went with one accord. No less, Beloved,

My heart perforce shall kindle at thy fire.

Toiled in my vineyard since the early sun,

Toiled through the drouth, the ardent heat of noon,

These, my true laborers. Say, who earns my boon,

My honorable wag my deep Well-done, He that shall come at rise or set of sun? Even he, Beloved,

Who serves thee there, whether at eve or noon.

The marriage-feast was spread within my house,

Red flowed the wine, loud rose the eager din.

Prepared for honored guests, the fare therein Now bids another company carouse. O heedless, find you welcome in my house? Even I, Beloved,

Compelled from hedge and highway to come in.

Renownless Christs of a new Calvary,

My children died, love's dearest debt to pay.

Thief, who have filched your peace in vain, to-day Beside that ransoming love unforced and free, Perish you not on a most shameful tree? Not so, Beloved,

For I shall meet thy Dead in heaven to-day.

- Alberta Vickridge.
IN A SLUM

I NEVER heard him speak a kindly word,

My tears were answered with a savage oath,

He drank what we could very ill afford,

He was a bully and a drunkard both.

He broke my body as he broke my soul,

I shivered when I heard his stumbling feet;

At times the very household "sticks" he stole,

To pawn and pay for women in the street.

I stitched and labored for his children's bread,

Fourpence a shirt the sweated wage I earned,

Save when the doctor forced me to my bed,

Where thrice a mother's travail I had learned.

The day he left me for the barrack square,

He swore we women were no earthly use

For anything but filling men with care,

His parting words were words of foul abuse.

And now they tell me of a hero's death,

How one to twelve he held the Huns at bay,

And won the Cross, yet with his passing breath

He bade the chaplain "take his face away."

Inside the pubs the neighbors speak his praise,

The man wI brought the world about our slum, Or by the open door they stand and gaze,

And wonder why his slattern wife is dumb.

The preacher dwells the ways of God upon,

Surpassing man's design and woman's wit; Oh God, I can't be sorry he is gone,

But going I am glad he did his bit.

- A. Stodctrt Walker.
ENGLAND TO DENMARK

August, 1915

GREAT little land, old comrades of the sea, Salt of its salt, whelps of its Viking brood, Sharers with us in its free fearless mood,

Narrow your home, world-wide your chivalry!

Now call we kin for the past and the years to be, Now is the name of righteous Cnut renewed, Forgiven and forgot all days of feud,

In your sure aid and swift sweet sympathy.

Your forbears ruled us with the wise King's yoke, Your Princess binds us with her Queenly grace, To-day your strong sons all our hearts constrain,

Who could not brook a foul and dastard stroke, But swept between, and rather death would .face,

Than that sea-murder Danish waves should stain.

- Herbert Warren.

MOTHER OF NATIONS WHY?

DOES the Mother of Nations draw the sword

To rescue her children oppressed?

They have all that the richest lands afford;

They sit content at an ample board

As safe as a bird in its nest.

Has she laid her spear on the shield of Mars

New lands in the wars to gain?

Her dominions extend wherever the stars

Are blushing with shame for our foolish wars;

Her ships are on every main.

And not that the world may acclaim her grand

Is the roar of her guns on the seas;

Her name is lustred on every strand, Her glory is known to the farthest land

Where her standard floats on the breeze.

Ah this is the pillar of cloud and fire

That leads her hosts along;

This, this is the goal of their deep desire, The road where their feet shall never tire, -

To be just, keep faith and be strong.
So the Mother of Nations has risen in might At the word of the onward call;

She has shaken her banners forth to the light,

And marched to the front of the people's fight Like the van of a tidal wall.

And the future shall say of her sons who died Wherever their feet have trod

With millions of comrades in arms allied;

"They cast the treasures of earth aside And marched to the goals of God."

- Albert D. Waton.

Toronto.

OUR MEN

OUR men, they are our stronghold, Our bastioned wall unsealed,

Who, against Hate and Wrong, hold

This Realm that never quailed;

Who bear the noblest burden

Life lays on shoulders broad,

Asking not fame or guerdon,

Asking not gold or laud.

They go where England speeds them;

They laugh and jest at Fate.

They go where England needs them

And dream not they are great,

And oft, 'mid smoke and smother

By blinding warstorm fanned

Sons of our mighty Mother,

They fall that she may stand.

Our sailors, save when sleeping The light sleep of the sea,

Their ancient watch are keeping,

Mother, for thine and thee I
