SURE, IT'S FUN!

What fun to be a soldier!

- Everyki].

SunE, it's fun to be a soldier! Oh, it's fun, fun, fun,

Upon an iron shoulder-blade to tote a feather gun;

To hike with other brave galoots in easy-going army-boots;

To pack along a one-ounce sack, the commissary on your track;

To tramp, tramp, tramp, to a right-and-ready camp!

Fun? -Sure, it's fun, just the finest ever, son!

Yes, it's fun to be a soldier! Oh, it's fun, fun, fun,

To loaf along a level road beneath a cloudless sun

Or over fields of golden grain, kept cool by puffs of wind and rain;

Then richly, more-than-fully, fed, to stretch upon a downy bed

And sleep, sleep, sleep, while the stay-at-homes weep!

Fun? - Sure, it's fun, just the finest ever, son!

Oh, it's fun to be a soldier! Oh, it's fun, fun, fun,

To catch the silly enemy and get 'em on the run;

To here and there blow off a head with just a bit of chuckling lead;

To bayonet a foolish bloke at hide-and-seek in trench and smoke;

To shoot, shoot, shoot, till they've got no 1e.-scoot!

Fun? - Sure, it's fun, just the finest ever, soi

God, it's fun to be a soldier! Oh, it's fun, fun To lie don

With no hurry for; Not hungry, thirsty, tired, but a hero much-admiro Just dead, dead, dead, like Jack and Bill and Fro Von? - Sure, it's fun, just the finest ever, son
THE AIRMAN

WILD wind, and drcar, beneath the pale stars blowing,

Whom do you hunt to-night?

Out of the west into the storm-cloud glowing

A biplane wings her flight.

In the grey day-dawn was there no returning,

No homewards for the dead: -

Only a broken wing, a biplane burning,

A shattered airship shed!

O Nation proud, on whose red altar gladly

One more young Life is laid,

Scatter the news - flutter the posters madly -

"Triumph of British raid!"

What of the Cross they brought to her - his Mother?

Wanly her dumb lips smiled,

Then whispered: "Give back him - I had no other -

My Son - my only child."

- Gregg Goddard.

BROTHERS IN ARMS

WHEN behind her violated border,

With unflinching bayonet and gun,

Belgium, in heroic battle order,

Met the savage onset of the Hun;

When o'er league on league of peaceful tillage,

Ender screaming showers of shot and shell,

Into open town, defenceless village,

He let loose his shameless hounds of Hell;

When Liege, henceforth a name immortal!

Perished fighting at his cannons' mouth,

When he seized Namur, and through her portal,

Drunk with fury, still went surging south

When with murderous rapine still unsated,

Sworn to bend them to his bloody yoke,

On the French and British Arms belated

Wave on wave his braggart legions broke;

When, outmarched before him, into distance,

Frank and Briton steadfastly withdrew,

Though he could not pierce our proud resistance,

Break our firm-linked, friendly phalanx through;

Then our country, roused to righteous reason

By the battle-thunder at her gate,
Flung abroad no foolish cry of treason

At the Rulers of her arms and State -

Pardoned those whose eyes were proven blinder

Than was Wisdom to the approach of war -

Put her unpreparedness behind her,

Only bade us look, henceforth, before.

Therefore, every cry of party faction

Into patriot silence fell away;

Britain summoned all her sons to action -

Suffering Britain - could we but obey?

Then the adamantine cable stretching,

Python-like across the ocean floor,

Aid on aid from her far children fetching,

Bade her heart with hope beat high once more;

Till the friends and foes whose fine derision

Long had flouted her Imperial dream,

Stood at gaze to mark the stately vision

Rise incarnate o'er the ocean stream;

Marvelling, while above the pine-fringed waters,

While above the palm-set Austral earth

At their Mother's call, her mighty daughters,

Sprang, as Pallas sprang, full-armed to birth;

While, 0 proudest Page in all the story

Of Imperial India's book of life!

One by one each Princely Feudatory

In our service arms him for the strife.

Our retreat is stayed, and Frank and Briton,

Reinforced, leap forth to the attack -

Now the smiter hip and thigh is smitten;

In defeat we roll him roughly back.

Now again in anger dour he rallies,

And again assaults us flank and front;

While his dead and ours o'er hills and valleys

Mix amid the dreadful battle brunt.

Up the slopes his batteries are crowning,

Foot by foot we dig our trenches in;

Rise and charge and seize his cannon frown

Though we fall in swaths one gun to win.

Trusting surely that how oft soever

Back and forth War's crimson waves ma

On our, faithful, chivalrous endeavor

Victory's full-orbed sun at last shall glow
INTO BATTLE

THE naked earth is warm with Spring,

And with green grass and bursting trees

Leans to the sun's gaze glorying,

And quivers in the sunny breeze;

And Life is Color and Warmth and Light,

And a striving evermore for these;

And he is dead who will not fight;

And who dies fighting has increase.

The fighting man shall from the sun

Take warmth, and life from the glowing earth;

Speed with the light-foot winds to run,

And with the trees to newer birth;

And find, when fighting shall be done,

Great rest, and fullness after dearth.

All the bright company of Heaven

Hold him in their high comradeship,

The Dog-Star and the Sisters Seven,

Orion's Belt and sworded hip.

The woodland trees that stand together,

They stand to him each one a friend;

They gently speak in the windy weather;

They guide to valley and ridges' end.

The kestrel hovering by day,

And the little owls that call by night,

Bid him be swift and keen as they,

As keen of ear, as swift of sight.

The blackbird sings to him, Brother, hrothc

If this be the last song ou shall siri

Sing well, for you mn

Before the brazen frenzy sth The horses show him nobler powi

O patient eyes, courageous heart

And when the burning moment brcak,

And all things else are out of mind,

And only Joy-of-Battle takes

Him by the throat, and makes him blind,

Through joy and blindness he shall know,

Not caring much to know, that still

Nor lead nor steel shall reach him, so

That it be not the Destined Will.
The thundering line of battle stands,

And in the air Death moans and sings;

But Day shall clasp him with strong hands,

And Night shall fold him in soft wings.

Julian Grenfeil.

Flanders, April, 1915.

Captain the Hon. Julian Henry Francis Grenfell, D.S.O, of the 1st (Royal) Dragoons, was wounded in the trenches in front of Ypres on May 13, and died in hospital at Boulogne on May 26, 1915. He was the eldest son of Lord Desborough, by whose consent the poem is here reprinted. Lord Desborough writes: "Not many men would have knocked out two professional boxers and written those verses in one week."

THE WYK}TAI\ lIST

IN the wake of the yellow sunset one pale star Hangs over the darkening city's purple haze. An errand-boy in the street beneath me plays On a penny whistle. Very faint and far Comes the scroop of tortured gear on a battered cu A hyacinth nods pallid blooms on the window Swayed by the tiny wind. St. Catherine's Hill Is a place of mystery, a land of dreams. The tramp of soldiers, barrack-marching, s A thin,g remote, untouched by fate or time.

A year ago you heard Cathedral's ci You hurried up to books - a year ago; - Shouted for "Houses" in New Field below.

You . . . "died of wounds" . . . tlR 1(

me yet your feet Pass with the others down the twilit street.

Nom (uiffiths.
