STATISTICS

NAPOLEON shifted Restless in the old sarcophagus And murmured to a watchguard: "Who goes there?" "Twenty-one million men, Soldiers, armies, guns, Twenty-one million Afoot, horseback, In the air, Under the sea." And Napoleon turned to his sleep: "It is not my world answering; It is some dreamer who knows not The world I marched in From Calais to Moscow." And he slept on In the old sarcophagus While the aeroplanes Droned their motors Between Napoleon's mausoleum And the cool night stars.

- Carl Sandburg.

AUSTRALIANS TO THE FRONT!

(Captain Cook hears the Drums)

FROM the Scheldt to the Niemen,

Hark, the music of the drums!

Not unthrilled the souls of freemen

When that instant message comes.

Rolling east the wild fantasia

Stirs the Orient blood to flame;

And the drums call Austral-asia

And she answers to her name.

Far away from hosts in battle,

Yet in time with marching feet

Here and now the war-drums rat

In the sunbright city street.

Horse and foot in martial mann

Swift commands, and glan

Naked steel and silken bannc

Thus the ranks go proudly

But within the gardens spaci

Not a stone's throw from the

One who fronts the landscape griule

l,iii ti tlI(' \\lr-jF1tflI111111.
Beats the eager drummer harder,

And methinks the bronze can hear,

In those eyes a flash of ardor!

On that cheek a noble tear!

Dauntless Captain, did'st thou ever,

With thy sailor-eyes of gray

Searching out from thy endeavor

That sequestered flower-starred bay,

Dream that some day those who love thee

Here would stake their all of worth,

For the flag that waved above thee

And the land that gave thee birth?

And the dauntless Captain listens:

Ah, if only he could speak!

But a vagrant raindrop glistens

On that scorched and blistered cheek,

And the faith that does not falter

Still may hear his whisper low:

"Son, this new land doth not alter

Britain's breed of long ago."

- John Sandes.

I DO not ask that he may never yield When fighting on the foam or on the fid], Since this I know: -

That while he You guard and guide him day by day! And give me strength to tend his littk one,, Until he comes.

On laud or sea, Wherever he may be, God, kiss my man for me!

- Egbert Soodford.
THE VALE OF SHADOWS

THERE is a vale in the Flemish land,

A vale once fair to see, Where under the sweep of the sky's wide arch, Though winter freeze or summer parch, The stately poplars march and march,

Remembering Lombardy.

Here are men of the Saxon eyes,

Men of the Saxon heart, Men of the fens and men of the Peak, Men of the Kentish meadows sleek, Men of the Cornwall cove and creek,

Men of the Dove and Dart.

Here are men of the kilted clans

From the heathery slopes that lie Where the mists hang gray and the mists hang white, And the deep lochs brood 'neath the craggy height, And the curlews scream in the moonless night

Over the hills of the Skye.

Here are men of the Celtic breed,

Lads of the smile and tear,

From where the loops of the Shannon flow, And the crosses gleam in the even-glow, And the halls of Tara now are low, And Donegal cliffs are sheer.

And never a word does one man speak, Each in his narrow bed, For this is the Vale of Long Release, This is the Vale of the Lasting Peace, Where wars, and the rumors of wars, shall cease, The valley of the dead.

No more are they than the scattered scud, No more than broken reeds, No more than shards or shattered glass, Than dust blown down the winds that pass, Than trampled wefts of pampasgrass When the wild herd stampedes.

In the dusk of death they laid them down With naught of murmuring, And laughter rings through the House of Mirth To hear the vaunt of the high of birth, For what are all the kings of earth Before the one great King!

And what shall these proud war-lords say At foot of His mighty throne?
For there shall dawn a reckoning day, Or soon or late, come as it may, When those who gave the sign to slay

Shall meet His face alone.

What, think ye, will their penance be

Who have wrought this monstrous crime? What shall whiten their blood-red hands Of the stains of riven and ravished lands? How shall they answer God's stern commands

At the last assize of Time?

For though we worship no vengeance-god

Of madness and of ire, No Presence grim, with a heart of stone, Shall they not somehow yet atone? Shall they not reap as they have sown

Of fury and of fire?

There is a vale in the Flemish land

Where the lengthening shadows spread When day, with crimson sandals shod, Goes home athwart the mounds of sod That cry in silence up to God

From the valley of the dead!

- Clinton Scollard.
THE WAYSIDE CALVARY

(Lines written on the anniversary of the outbreak of the war.)

Now with the full year Memory holds her tryst Heavy with such a tale of bitter loss As never Earth has suffered since the Christ Hung for us on the Cross.

If God, 0 Kaiser, makes the vision plain: Gives you on some lone Calvary to see The Man of Sorrows Who endured the pain And died to set us free -

How will you face beneath its Crown of thorn That Figure stark against the smoking skies, The Arms outstretched, the Sacred Head forlorn And those reproachful Eyes?

How dare confront the false quest with the true Or think what gulfs between the ideals lie Of Him Who died that men might live - and you Who live that men may die.

Ah, turn your eyes away: He reads your heart; Pass on and, having done your work abhorred, Join hands with Judas in his place apart, You who betrayed your Lord.

- Owen Seaman.
