Soldier, soldier, if by shot or shell They wound him, my dear lad, my sweetheart 0, He'll lie bleeding in the rain And call me, all in vain, Crying for the fingers of his sweetheart 0.

Pretty one, pretty one, now take a word from me: Don't you grudge the life-blood of your sweetheart 0. For you must understand He gives it to our land, And proud should fly the colors of his sweetheart 0.

Soldier, soldier, my heart is growing cold If a German shot kill my sweetheart 0! I could not lift my head If my dear love lay dead With his wide eyes waiting for his sweetheart 0.

Poor child, poor child, go to church and pray, Pray God to spare you your sweetheart 0. But if he live or die The English flag must fly, And England take care of his sweetheart 0!

- Maurice Hewlett.

APRIL IN ENGLAND

APRIL in England. Daffodils are growing

By every wayside, golden, tall and fair;

April - and all the little winds are blowing

The scents of springtime through the sunny air.

April in England. God, that we were there.

April in England. And her sons are lying

On these red fields and dreaming of her shore;

April - we hear the thrushes' songs replying

Each unto each, above the cannons' roar.

April in England. Shall we see it more?

April in England. There's the cuckoo calling

Down in her meadows, where the cowslip gleams,

April - and little showers are softly falling,

Dimpling the surface of her babbling streams.

April in England. How the shrapnel screams.

April in England. Blood and dust and smother,

Screaming of horses, men in agony,

April - full many of thy sons, 0 Mother,

Never again those dewy dawns shall see

April in England. God keep England free.

- Norah M. Holland.
THINGS THAT WERE YOURS

THESE things were yours, these little simple things;

You touched them, used them one time, loved them well.

Now you are gone, but still about them clings

The fragrance of your hands adorable.

These childish books; these learned works wellthumbed;

These time-stained prints; these comfortable chairs;

This music, and this album where you gummed

Your childhood's treasure; these Italian jars;

This little cup blue-patterned; this old bed;

These sheets that whitely wrapt you slumbering; These garden-walks and autumn-tinted trees,

That knew your laughter, and past numbering

These blades of grass that bent beneath your tread: Because they once were yours, I love all these. - Dyneley Hu8sey. (Lieut., 13th Bn. Lancashire Fusiliers.)

JOAN OF FRANCE TO AN ENGLISH SISTER

I. M. EDITH CAVELL, NURSE

"Pitié que estoit au royaume de France."

PITY had I for my France my land In the days so far that be,

Pity of heart and pity of hand -

And who had pity on me?

England's daughter, led out to die

For a deed of mercy and truth,

Guerdon of helper thou hast as I

From the men that have murdered ruth.

Sister of Joan by the pity, the spite,

Joy yet in the pain be thine:

We have armed our folk with a quenchless might, Fire of thy bosom and mine.

-J. H. S.
THE TWA WEELUMS

I'M Sairgeant Weelum Henderson frae Pairth, That's wha I am!

There's just ae regimint in a' the airth That's worth a damn;

An' gin the bonniest fechter o' the lot Ye seek to see,

Him that's the best - whaur ilka man's a Scot -

Speir you at me!

Gin there's a hash o' Gairmans latten oot By aichts an' tens,

That Wully Henderson's been thereaboot A'body kens;

Fegs-aye ! Yon VVeelum tlait's iii (tirmanie, He hadna' reckoned

Wi' Sairgint Weelum. Hender,on m' N\-I'

The Forty-Second!

Yon day we lichtit on the shores o' France,

The lassies standin'

Trod ilk on ither's taes to get the chance To see us landin'.

The besoms! 0 they smiled to me - an' yet They couldna' help it.

(Mysel', I just was thinkin' foo we'd get They Gairmans skelpit.)

I'm wearied wi' them, for it's aye the same Whaure'er we gang,

Oor Captain thinks we've got his een to blame, But man! he's wrang!

I winna say he's no as smairt a lad As ye micht see

Atween twa Sawbiths - aye, he's no sae bad, But he's no me!

\Vecl, let the limmers bide; their bonnie lips Are fine an' reid,

Bit me an' Weelum's got to get to grips Afore we're deid,

An' gin he thinks he hasna' met his match He'll sune be wiser -

I hri's to mysel'! Here's to the auld Black Watch! .\r' dainti the Kaiser!

- Violet Jacob.
A LEGEND OF YPRES

BEFORE the throne the spirits of the slain

With a loud voice importunately cried,

"0 Lord of Hosts, whose name be glorified, Scarce may the line one onslaught more sustain Wanting our help. Let it not be in vain,

Not all in vain, 0 God, that we have died."

And smiling on them our good Lord replied, "Begone then, foolish ones, and fight again."

Our eyes were holden, that we saw them not;

Disheartened foes beheld - our prisoners said Behind us massed, a mighty host indeed, Where no host was. On comrades unforgot

We thought, and knew that all those valiant dead Forwent their rest to save us at our need.

- Elinor Jenkins.

(See note on "The First Battle of Ypres," by Mrs. Margaret L. Woods, p. 290 of this volume.)

IN MEMORIAM

(To Field-Marshal Lord Roberts of Kandahar, died November, 1914)

REST, though the clamorous surge of war

Follow thy peace to the great doors of Death;

As in thy fearless life, so now, the cannons' roar,

The roll of drums, at thy last breath

Proclaim thee Conqueror!

The prophets and the warriors who have passed

That way before thy coming, welcome thee;

The Angel's trumpet sounds a nobler blast,

And kings and knights of the old chivalry

Now hail thee at the last.

Thy days, thy deeds, thy words of proven gold,

Thy son, and last of all, thyself did give

For Country's sake, and now the tale is told

Thy splendid memory shall breathe and live

Till all men's hearts lie cold.

- Edmund John.
INDIA TO ENGLAND

0 ENGLAND! in thine hour of need, When Faith's reward and valor's meed Is death or glory, When Faith indites, with biting brand, Clasped in each warrior's stiffening hand, A nation's story;

Though weak our hands, which fain would clasp The warrior's sword with warrior's grasp On victory's field; Yet turn, 0 mighty Mother! turn Unto the million hearts that hurii To be thy shieh 1.

Thine equal justice, mercy, grace Have made a distant alien race A part of thee. 'Twas thine to bid their souls rejoice When first they heard the living voice Of Liberty.

Unmindful of their a nciciit name, And lost to honor - glory fame, And sunk in strife,

Thou found them, whom thy touch hath made i\[en, and to whom thy breath conveyed A ii ii )hr life.

'l'lay, \vhofli thy love hath guarded long; They, whom thy care bath rendered strong In love and faith, Their heartstrings round thy heart entwine, They are, they ever will be, thine In Ili',, -In death.

Nizamat Jung.

v Judge of the I ugh Court of Hyderabad.)
