Where that foam was leaping, With bayonets, or with none, The cooks and the service men Ran upon the Hun.

The cooks and the service men charged and charged together

Moussy's cuirassiers, on foot, with spur and sabre;

Helmed and shining fought they as warriors fought of yore -

Till calm fell sinister as the hush at the whirlwind's core,

From Bixschoote to Baecelaere and down to the Lys river.

Lo! the Emperor launched on us his guard of old renown,

Stepping in parade-march, as they step through Berlin town,

On the chill road to Gheluveldt, in the dark before the dawning.

Heavily tolled on them Mortal mouths of guns, Gallantly, gallantly Came the flower of the Huns.

Proud men they marched, like an avalanche on us falling,

Prouder men they met, in the dark before the dawning.

Seven to one they came against us to shatter us and drown,

One to seven in the woodland we fought them up and down.

In the sad November woodland, when all the skies were mourning.

The long battle thundered till a waxing moon might wane,

Thrice they broke the exhausted line that held them on the plain,

And thrice like billows they went back, from viewless bounds retiring.

Why paused they and went backward, With never a foe before Like a long wave dragging Down a level shore

Its fierce reluctant surges, that came triumphant storming

The land, and powers invisible drive to its deep returning?

On the grey field of Flanders again and yet again

The Huns beheld the Great Reserves on the old battle-plain,

The blood-red field of Flanders, where all the skies were mourning.
The fury of their marshalled guns might plough no dreadful lane

Through those Reserves that waited in the ambush of the rain,

On the riven plain of Flanders, where hills of men lay moaning.

They hurled upon an army The bellowing heart of Hell, We saw but the meadows Torn with their shot and shell.

We heard not the march of the succours that were coming,

Their old forgotten bugle-calls, the fifes and the drumming,

But they gathered and they gathered from the graves where they had lain

A hundred years, hundreds of years, on the old battle-plain,

And the young graves of Flanders, all fresh with dews of mourning.

Marlborough's men and Wellington's, the burghers of Courtrai,

The warriors of Plantagenet, King Louis' Gants glacés -

And the young, young dead from Mons and the Marne river.

Old heroic fighting men, Who fought for chivalry, Men who died for England, Mother of Liberty.

In the world's dim heart, where the waiting spirits slumber,

Sounded a roar when the walls were rent asunder

That parted Earth from Hell, and summoning them away,

Tremendous trumpets blew, as at the Judgment Day

And the dead came forth, each to his former banner.

Oil the grim field of Flanders, the old battle plain,

Their armies held the iron line round Ypres in the rain,

From Bixschoote to Baecelaere and down to the Lys river.

- Margaret L. Woods.
KITCHENEIt

IF Death had questioned thee, "Soldier, where would'st thou take, The immitigable blow?" Thou hadst answered, "Let it be Where the battalions shake And break the entrenched foe."

Yet wert thou nobly starred And destined. Thou dost die On the grim English sea; Thou goest to the old tarred Great Captains, and shalt lie Pillowed with them eternally.

And they shall stir from their rest Each in his lordly shroud, And say, "Fore God, we have room, So are the deeps made proud, Behold the glory on his breast, Kitchener of Khartoum!"

-x.

MARCHING ON TANGA

MARCHING 011 Tanga, marching the parched plain Of wavering spear-grass by Pangani river, England came to me - me who had always ta'en But never given before - England, the giver, In a vision of tall poplar trees that shiver On still evenings of summer, after rain, By Slapton Ley, where reed-beds start and quiver When scarce a ripple moves the upland grain.

Then I thanked God that now I had suffered pain And, as the parched plain, thirst, and lain awake Shivering all night through till cold daybreak: In that I count these sufferings my gain And her acknowledgment. Nay, more, would fain Suffer as many more for her sweet sake.

- Francis Brett Young.

With the British Expeditionary Force, Marago-Opuni, German East Africa. June, 1916.

Printed in the United States of America.
