Are Collingwood, Blake and Nelson, too, In their high-decked ships, along with you?

Oh, seamen of old, the shadowy gates Swing wide to let you through, And out o'er the seas your galleons sweep To fight for the flag anew.

- M. G. Meugen8.

SUMMER IN ENGLAND, 1914

ON London fell a clearer light;

Caressing pencils of the sun Defined the distances, the white

Houses transfigured one by one, The "long, unlovely street" impearled. O what a sky has walked the world!

Most happy year! And out of town

The hay was prosperous, and the wheat; The silken harvest climbed the down;

Moon after moon was heavenly sweet, Stroking the bread within the sheaves, Looking twixt apples and their leaves.

And while this rose made round her cup,

The armies died convulsed; and when This chaste young silver sun went up

Softly, a thousand shattered men, One wet corruption, heaped the plain, After a league-long throb of pain.

Flower following tender flower, and birds,

And berries; and benignant skies
Made thrive the serried flocks and herds.

Yonder are men shot through the eyes, And children crushed. Love, hide thy face From man's unpardonable race.

A Reply

Who said "No man hath greater love than this To die to serve his friend?" So these have loved us all unto the end. Chide thou no more, 0 thou unsacrificed! The soldier dying dies upon a kiss,

The very kiss of Christ.

- Alice Meynell.

OFF HELIGOLAND

GHOSTLY ships in a ghostly sea,

(Here's to Drake in the Spanish main!)

Hark to the turbines, running free,

Oil-cups full and the orders plain.

Plunging into the misty night,

Surging into the rolling brine,

Never a word, and never a light,

- This for England that love of mine!

Look! a gleam on the starboard bow,

(Here's to the Fighting Temeraire!)

Quartermaster be ready now,

Two points over, and keep her there.

Ghostly ships - let the foemen grieve.

Yon's the Admiral tight and trim,

And one more - with an empty sleeve -

Standing a little aft of him!

Slender, young in a coat of blue,

(Here's to the Agamemnon's pride 1)

Out of the mists that long he knew,

Out of the Victory, where he died,
Here to the battle-front he came.

See, he smiles in his gallant way!

Ghostly ships in a ghostly game,

Roaring guns on a ghostly day!

There in his white silk smalls he stands,

(Here's to Nelson, with three times three!)

Coming out of the misty lands

Far, far over the misty sea.

Now the Foe is a crippled wreck,

Limping out of the deadly fight.

Smiling yond on the quarterdeck

Stands the Spirit, all silver-bright.

- J. E. Middleton.

HE WENT FOR A SOLDIER

HE marched away with a blithe young score of him With the first volunteers,

Clear-eyed and clean and sound to the core of him, Blushing under the cheers.

They were fine, new flags that swung a-flying there,

Oh, the pretty girls he glimpsed a-crying there, Pelting him with pinks and with roses Billy, the Soldier Boy!

Not very clear in the kind young heart of him What the fuss was about,

But the flowers and the flags seemed part of him The music drowned his doubt.

It's a fine, brave sight they were a-coming there

To the gay, bold tune they kept a-drumming there, While the boasting fifes shrilled jauntily Billy, the Soldier Boy!

Soon he is one with the blinding smoke of it Volley and curse and groan:

Then he has done with the knightly joke of it It's rending flesh and bone.
There are pain-crazed animals a-shrieking there

And a warm blood stench that is a-reeking there; He fights like a rat in a corner Billy, the Soldier Boy!

There he lies now, like a ghoulish score of him, Left on the field for dead:

The ground all around is smeared with the gore of him Even the leaves are red.

The Thing that was Billy lies a-dying there,

Writhing and a-twisting and a-crying there; A sickening sun grins down on him Billy, the Soldier Boy!

Still not quite clear in the poor, wrung heart of him What the fuss was about,

See where he lies - or a ghastly part of him While life is oozing out:

There are loathsome things he sees a-crawling there;

There are hoarse-voiced crows he hears a-calling there, Eager for the foul feast spread for them Billy, the Soldier Boy!

How much longer, 0 Lord, shall we bear it all? How many more red years?

Story it and glory it and share it all, In seas of blood and tears?

They are braggart attitudes we've worn so long;

- They are tinsel platitudes we've sworn so long We who have turned the Devil's Grindstone, Borne with the hell called War!

- Ruth Comfort Mitchell.
ON THE PORCH

As I lie roofed in, screened in, From the pattering rain, The summer rain As I lie Snug and dry, And hear the birds complain:

Oh, billow on billow, Oh, roar on roar, Over me wash The seas of war. Over me - down - down Lunges and plunges The huge gun with its one blind eye, The armored train, And, swooping out of the sky, The aeroplane. Down - down The army proudly swinging Under gay flags, The glorious dead heaped up like rags, A church with bronze bells ringing, A city all towers,

Gardens of lovers and flowers, The round world swinging In the light of the sun: All broken, undone, All down under Black surges of thunder .

Oh, billow on billow Oh, roar on roar, Over me wash The seas of war .

As I lie roofed in, screened in, From the pattering rain, The summer rain As I lie Snug and dry, And hear the birds complain.

- Harriet Monroe.
A.S.K.

July 14, 1915

You must not mourn for him, he that went out to France, He, like the rest of them, clearminded, open-eyed, It was for him to decide; He took his chance; And he is dead in France.

Oh, do not mourn for him, he heard his country's call, And answering, gave all he had to give; Yet though they die, they live; Not dead at all Those who obeyed that call.

No, no, it is not wasted, all that love and thought, It is embodied in all truth and right; These pass not out to-night Nor turn to nought Labor and love and thought.

N.M.H.

A SONG OF PEACE AND HONOR

WE, men of England, children of her might,

With all our mother's record-roll of glory,

Great with her greatness, noble with her name,

Drank with our mother's milk our mother's story,

And in our veins the splendor of her fame

Made strong our blood and bright;

And to her absent sons her name has been

Familiar music heard in distant lands,

Heart of our heart, and sinews of our hands,

England, our Mother, our Mistress and our Queen!

Out of the thunderous echoes of the past,

Through the gold dust of centuries, we hear

Her voice: "0 children of a royal line,

Sons of my heart who hold your England dear,

Mine was the past, make ye the future mine

All glorious to the last!"

And, as we hear her, cowards grow to men,

And men to heroes, and the voice of fear

Is as a whisper in a deaf man's ear

And the dead past is quick in us again.

0
Her robe is woven of glory and of renown,

Hers are the golden laden argosies

And lordship of the wild and watery ways,

Her flag is blown across the utmost seas;

Dead nations built her throne and kingdoms blaze

For jewels in her crown.

Her empire like a girdle doth enfold

The world; her feet on ancient foes are set;

She wears the steel-wrought blood-bright amulet

Wrought by her children in the days of old.

Yet in a treasury of such gems as these,

Which power and sovereignty and kingship fill

To the vast limit of the circling sun,

England, our Mother, in her heart holds still

As her most precious jewel, save only one,

The priceless pearl of peace Peace, plucked from out of the very heart of war

Through the long agony of strenuous years,

Made pure by blood and sanctified by tears,

A pearl to lie where England's treasures are.

0 peaceful English lanes, all white with may,

0 English meadows where the grass grows tall,

O red-roofed village, field and farm and fold

Where the long shadows of the elm-trees fall

On the wide pastures which the sun calls gold,

And twilight dew calls grey;

These are the home, the happy cradle place

Of every man who has our English tongue,

Sprung from those loins from which our sires have sprung,

Heirs of the glory of our mighty race.

Brothers, we hold the pearl of priceless worth,

How dare we then to cast our pearl aside?

Is it not more to us than all things are?

Nay, peace is precious as the world is wide,

But England's honor is more precious far

Than all the heavens and earth.

Were honor outcast from her supreme place

Our pearl of peace no more a pearl would shine,

But, trampled under foot of dogs and swine,

Rot in the mire of a deserved disgrace.

So, for our Mother's honor, since it must,

Let peace be lost, but lost the worthier way,

Not trampled down, but given, for her sake,

Who forged of many an iron yesterday

The golden song that gold-tongued Fame shall wake

When we are dust, in dust;

For life and love and death and praise and blame,

And all the world, even to our very laud,

Weighed in the balance are as a grain of sand

Against the honor of the English name!

-E. Nesbit.
THE FISHER-LAD

"FAREWELL and good-bye to you, maiden of Teifi,

Farewell and good-bye to you, dear Teifi maid!

The jolly-boat's waiting, I'm off in a jiffy,

To scouting and cruising, to chase and to raid.

"Ah, cariad, say, when you see in the offing,

Dark on the blue waters of Cardigan Bay,

Our smoke-stack just showing, then will you be doffing

Your bonnet to wave us a parting 'huzzay'?

"Once homeward I'd run, tho' the black scud was flying,

And the breakers were howling like fiends on our lee,

With every stitch set, ever danger defying,

For, anwyl, I know that you watched on the quay.

"In vain will you watch for your fisher-lad's skiff, he

Is tracking the death that the foeman has laid;

If Death is the end of it, dear maid of Teifi,

Farewell and good-bye to you, dear Teifi maid !"

-J. A. Nicklin.

THE SEARCHLIGHTS

Political morality differs from individual morality, be

cause there is no power above the State.

-GENERAL vON BERNHARDI.

SHADOW by shadow, stripped for fight

The lean black cruisers search the sea. Night-long their level shafts of light

Revolve, and find no enemy.

Only they know each leaping wave

May hide the lightning, and their grave.

And in the land they guard so well

Is there no silent watch to keep?

An age is dying, and the bell

Rings midnight on a vaster deep. But over all its waves, once more The searchlights move, from shore to shore.

And captains that we thought were dead, And dreamers that we thought were dumb,

And voices that we thought were fled,

Arise, and call us, and we come; And "search in thine own soul," they cry; "For there, too, lurks thine enemy."
Search for the foe in thine own soul,

The sloth, the intellectual pride; The trivial jest that veils the goal

For which our fathers lived and died; The lawless dreams, the cynic Art, That rend thy nobler self apart.

Not far, not far into the night,

These level swords of light can pierce; Yet for her faith does England fight,

Her faith in this our universe, Believing Truth and Justice draw From founts of everlasting law;

The law that rules the stars, our stay,

Our compass through the world's wide sea, The one sure light, the one sure way,

The one firm base of Liberty; The one firm road that men have trod Through Chaos to the throne of God.

Therefore a Power above the State,

The unconquerable Power returns. The fire, the fire that made her great

Once more upon her altar burns, Once more, redeemed and healed and whole, She moves to the Eternal Goal.

-A lfred Noye$.

MASTER AND PUPIL

(To J. F. R.)

Two years ago I taught him Greek,

And used to give him hints on bowling: His classics were a trifle weak;

His "action" needed some controlling. Convinced of my superior now

I thought him crude, and I was rather Inclined, as master of his House,

To treat him like a heavy father.

I wrote the usual reports

Upon his "lack of concentration"; Though certainly at winter Sports

He did not earn this condemnation. I took him out San Moritz way

One Christmas, and our roles inverted, For in the land of ski and sleigh

His mastery was soon asserted.

I thought him just a normal lad, Well-mannered, wholesome, unaffected; The makings of a Galahad

In him I had not yet detected;
And when I strove to mend his style,

Blue-penciling his exercises,

I little guessed that all the while

His soul was ripe for high emprises.

Two years ago! and here I am,

Rejected as unfit; still trying

(As Verrall taught me on the Cam)

To make Greek Plays electrifying.

And he who, till he was eighteen,

Found life one long excuse for laughing,

For eighteen solid months has been

Continuously "strafed" or "strafing."

He writes me letters from the front

Which prove, although he doesn't know it,

That though his words are plain and blunt,

He has the vision of a poet;

And lately, on his eight days' rest,

After long months of hard campaigning,

He came, and lo! an angel guest

I was aware of entertaining.

About himself he seldom spoke,

But often of his widowed mother,

And how she nobly bore the stroke

That robbed them of his sailor brother.

And still, from loyalty or whim,

He would defer to my opinion,

Unconscious how I envied him

His hard-earned gift of self-dominion.

For he had faced the awful King

Of Shadows in the darksome Valley,

And scorned the terrors of his sting

In many a perilous storm and sally.

Firm in the faith that never tires

Or thinks that man is God-forsaken,

From war's fierce seven-times-heated fires

He had emerged unseared, unshaken.

There are, alas! no sons of mine

To serve their country in her trial,

Embattled in the cause divine

Of sacrifice and self-denial;

But if there were, I could not pray

That God might shield them from disaster

More strongly than I plead to-day

For this my pupil and my master.

-0. M.
