There's none to laugh at you - no little child!

Not one. They've all gone back to sleeping."

She fell to awful weeping.

"Why do you play at soldiers?"

Then dropped down

To pat the little grave. The line went on and on into the town.

They saw it first in the city's eyes,

Old men grouped by their fright, ran here and there

In startled herds, with shrill unmeaning cries.

And there was white in every woman's hair,

And when a window yielded them a face

'Twas like a flower blasted by the sun;

Children there were none.

The world seemed robbed of joyousness and grace,

A young girl with a head of snow

Sat weaving garlands in the market-place

With hands unearthly slow,

As though her toil must be

The very measure of eternity.

A boy ran from the ranks, stooped, touched her brow;

"Margot, Margot! Is it thou?"

She did not glance up at the white-faced lad.

Deep in the gray line rang a sudden shout:

"They're mad! They're mad !"

"Silence, you dogs, until you're mustered out.

Forward, to greet the Emperor."'

The line Wavered and moaned and stumbled through the town

Like some dark serpent with a broken spine. Before the palace gate, in cloak and crown, A shriveled figure sat with shaking hands, Forming toy soldiers into various bands. A figure in a jeweled diadem,

Who, as the swords leaped with a ringing noise, Lifted his wasted eyes and looked at them.

"Ah !" said the Emperor, and smiled: "More toys!"

-Dana Burnet.
KITCHENER' S MARCH

NOT the muffled drums for him Nor the wailing of the fife. Trumpets blaring to the charge Were the music of his life. Let the music of his death Be the feet of marching men; Let his heart a thousandfold Take the field again.

Of his patience, of his calm, Of his quiet faithfulness, England, raise your hero's cairn! He is worthy of no less. Stone by stone, in silence laid, Singly, surely, let it grow. He whose living was to serve, Would have had it so.

There's a body drifting down For the mighty sea to keep. There's a spirit cannot die While a heart is left to leap In the land he gave his all, Steel alike to praise and hate.

He has saved the life he spent, Death has struck too late.

Not the muffled drums for him, Nor the wailing of the fife Trumpets blaring to the charge Were the music of his life. Let the music of his death Be the feet of marching men! Let his heart a thousandfold Take the field again!

- Amelia Josephine Burr.
LANGEMARCK AT YPIRES

Trns is the ballad of Langemarck, A story of glory and might;

Of the vast Hun horde, and Canada's part In the great, grim fight.

It was April fair on the Flanders Fields, But the dreadest April then,

That ever the years, in their fateful flight, Had brought to this world of men.

North and east, a monster wall, The mighty Hun ranks lay,

With fort on fort, and iron-ringed trench, Menacing, grim and gray.

And south and west, like a serpent of fire, Serried the British lines,

And in between, the dying and dead,

And the stench of blood, and the trampled mud, On the fair, sweet Belgian vines.

And far to the eastward, harnessed and taut, Like a scimitar, shining and keen,

Gleaming out of that ominous gloom, Old France's hosts were seen.

When out of the grim Hun lines one night,

There rolled a sinister smoke; -

A strange, weird cloud, like a pale, green shroud,

And death lurked in its cloak.

On a fiend-like wind it curled along

Over the brave French ranks,

Like a monster tree its vapors spread,

In hideous, burning banks

Of poisonous fumes that scorched the night

With their sulphurous demon danks.

And men went mad with horror, and fled

From that terrible strangling death,

That seemed to sear both body and soul

With its baleful, flaming breath.

Till even the little dark men of the south,

Who feared neither God nor man,

Those fierce, wild fighters of Afric's steppes,

Broke their battalions and ran; -

Ran as they never had run before,

Gasping, and fainting for breath;

For they knew 'twas no human foe that slew;

And that hideous smoke meant death.

Then red in the reek of that evil cloud,

The Hun swept over the plain;
And the murderer's dirk did its monster work,

Mid the scythe-like shrapnel rain.

Till it seemed that at last the brute Hun hordes

Had broken that wall of steel;

And that soon, through this breach in the freeman's dyke,

His trampling hosts would wheel; -

And sweep to the south in ravaging might,

And Europe's peoples again

Be trodden under the tyrant's heel,

Like herds, in the Prussian pen.

But in that line on the British right,

There massed a corps amain,

Of men who hailed from a far west land

Of mountain and forest and plain;

Men new to war and its dreadest deeds,

But noble and staunch and true;

Men of the open, East and West,

Brew of old Britain's brew.

These were the men out there that night,

When Hell loomed close ahead;

Who saw that pitiful, hideous rout,

And breathed those gases dread;

While some went under and some went mad;

But never a man there fled.

For the word was "Canada," theirs to fight,

And keep on fighting still; -

Britain said, fight, and fight they would,

Though the Devil himself in sulphurous mood,

Came over that hideous hill.

Yea, stubborn, they stood, that hero band,

Where no soul hoped to live;

For five, 'gainst eighty, thousand men,

Were hopeless odds to give.

Yea, fought they on! 'Twas Friday eve,

When that demon gas drove down;

'Twas Saturday eve that saw them still

Grimly holding their own;

Sunday, Monday, saw them yet,

A steadily lessening band,

With "no surrender" in their hearts,

But the dream of a far-off land,

Where mother and sister and love would weep

For the hushed heart lying still; -

But never a thought but to do their part,

And work the Empire's will.

Ringed round, hemmed in, and back to back,

They fought there under the dark,

And won for Empire, God and Right,

At grim, red Langemarck.

E
Wonderful battles have shaken this world, Since the Dawn-God overthrew Dis;

Wonderful struggles of right against wrong,

Sung in the rhymes of the world's great song, But never a greater than this.

Bannockburn, Inkerman, Balaclava, Marathon's god-like stand;

But never a more heroic deed,

And never a greater warrior breed, In any warman's land.

This is the ballad of Langemarck, A story of glory and might;

Of the vast Hun horde, and Canada's part In the great, grim fight.

- Wilfred Campbell.

Editorial Note: A son of Mr. Wilfred Campbell, the poet, is now fighting at St. Eloi. He is Capt. Basil Campbell, of the Second Pioneers.

GUNS OF VERDUN

(Reprinted by the special permission of the proprietors

of Punch.)

GuNs of Verdun point to Metz From the plated parapets; Guns of Metz grin back again O'er the fields of fair Lorraine.

Guns of Metz are long and grey Growling through a summer day; Guns of Verdun, grey and long, Boom an echo of their song.

Guns of Metz to Verdun roar, "Sisters, you shall foot the score;" Guns of Verdun say to Mets, "Fear not, for we pay our debts."

Guns of Metz they grumble, "When?" Guns of Verdun answer then, "Sisters, when to guard Lorraine Gunners lay you East again!"

- Patrick R. Chalmers.
